                       TABLE OF CONTENTS

1   FOREWORD……………………………………………………………………………………………………1

2   INTRODUCTION…………………………………………………………………………………………3

3   COLOR COMPUTER 3 HARDWARE DIFFERENCES………………………6

4   MEMORY MANAGEMENT…………………………………………………………………………10

5   SUPER HIGH RESOLUTION GRAPHICS………………………………………13

6   COLORS AND PALETTES……………………………………………………………………23

7   INTERRUPTS……………………………………………………………………………………………27

8   SUPER EXTENDED BASIC…………………………………………………………………30



                             APPENDICES

A   MEMORY MAP

B   DISASSEMBLY OF SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 2.0

C   SUPER EXTENDED BASIC SYMBOL TABLE

D   CHIP CONTROL REGISTERS

E   COLOR COMPUTER 3 COLORS

F   SUPER EXTENDED BASIC’S DATA/ASCII TABLES

G   ROM ROUTINES

H   SUPER EXTENDED BASIC ROUTINE ENTRY POINTS

I   BASIC 1.2/EXT. BASIC 1.1 VS COLOR EXT. 2.0 DIFFERENCES

J   CHARACTER SETS
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II       FOREWORD                   ORIGIN: SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                          REVISED:12/26/99 WALTER K ZYDHEK


                                     FOREWORD

      Due to the many requests for the Unravelled Series produced by Spectral
Associates, and the fact that these books are rare and no longer in production, I
have taken it upon myself to reproduce them in electronic .PDF (Adobe Acrobat)
format.

      I have re-disassembled the ROMs listed in this book, and added all the
comments from the Original Extended Basic Unravelled Book. Some changes were made
to make the book a little easier to read.

   1.    The comments have been cleaned up some. In cases where a comments continued
         onto the next line, a * is placed in the Labels column, as well as a * at
         the beginning of each line of the comment. In cases where the previous
         comment used this format, a = was used. This was done in the original, but
         not all comments stuck to this format.
   2.    I have renumbered all the line numbers. Each Appendix (with code) starts at
         Line 0001.
   3.    Some spell checking, and context checking was done to verify accuracy.
   4.    I used the Letter Gothic MT Bold Font. This allows for display of Slashed
         Zeros. I thought it important to be able to distinguish between 0 and O.
   5.    All the Hex code now shows the Opcodes.

      There were other minor changes that were made to make viewing a little
better. If any discrepancies arise, please let me know so that I may correct the
errors. I can be contacted at: mailto:wzydhek@internetcds.com

      Special Thanks to Jean-François Morin for pointing out those “Oops” to me.
I’d like to also thank those who have either given me, or loaned me their copy of
the original Unravelled Series.

                                      About Me

      My name is Walter K. Zydhek. I’ve been a Computer Hobbyist since 1984 when I
received my 1st Tandy Color Computer 2 for Christmas. It had 32K of ram, Cassette,
and one Cartridge. I quickly learned to program in Basic and then moved into
Assembly.

      Over the next few years, I saved to purchase the Multi-Pak Interface, Disk
Drives, Modem, OS-9, and various Odds and Ends.

      I moved to Tampa Florida and in the move, My CoCo was damaged. I then
replaced it with the CoCo 3. WOW what a difference. I added the 512K Ram Upgrade, A
CM-8 color monitor, and joined the Carolwood CoCo Club. (Thanks Jean-François for
reminding me of the name.)

      I had a couple of close friends that helped me explore the world of CoCo and
by this time, I knew that my CoCo would be my friend forever. I give special thanks
to Steve Cohn, who helped me get started with ADOS. Two other people whose names I
can’t remember were very beneficial to my mastering of the CoCo.

      Shortly after getting my CoCo 3, I started BBS’ing. Wow, a whole new world.
My knowledge just kept growing.




                                          1
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II      FOREWORD                   ORIGIN: SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                         REVISED:12/26/99 WALTER K ZYDHEK


      A few years later, I moved to Oregon, then to Phoenix, Arizona to attend
school. I studied Electronics Technology at Phoenix Institute of Technology. In the
second year, we studied Micro-processor Theory. For our labs, we just happen to use
the Tandy Color Computer 3 (for studying 6809 Processors). I had it made. In this
class I added an EPROM programmer/reader to my list of hardware. My favorite
instructor, Gary Angle & I spent many hours sharing information on the CoCo. At one
time, we shared a joint project to disassemble ROMs from industrial machinery,
which used the 6809 Processor. Using the CoCo to read the ROMs to work with.

      I even had a BBS running under OS-9 at one time. RiBBS I think it was. Very
similar to QuickBBS and RemoteAccess BBS for the PC.

      In 1991, I finally converted over to PC, but never forgetting my CoCo. About
5 years ago, My CoCo and all related material was stolen from me. And the CoCo
world was just a memory.

      In the last 2 Years, my love for the CoCo has re-kindled. I have been
partially content to use a CoCo Emulator for my PC. I tried the CoCo 2 Emulator by
Jeff Vavasour. This was OK, but a lot was left out. I then purchased the CoCo 3
Emulator. Much better, but would not use “Double Sided Disks”. Although it did have
a Virtual Hard Drive for use in OS-9.

      I then wanted to ‘better’ the CoCo Emulator, add use of PC hardware, Add
Double Sided Disk functionality, and even make it Windows Native, instead of a Dos
Box. Unfortunately I could not get the source code for the CoCo 3 Emulator.

      I then turned to Paul Burgin’s Dragon 2/Coco 2 Emulator. This had source code
available and with a small $20.00 donation, was able to get the source code to
additional portions of his program. I have tinkered with it, but came to understand
that I needed more info on the CoCo. I have looked all over the net and found quite
a lot of useful information, but what I really needed was the Unravelled Series.

      I was able to find someone that had Extended Basic Unravelled and Disk Basic
Unravelled (He sent them to me for free). And a friend of mine had Super Extended
Basic Unravelled (A copy I gave him years ago). Unfortunately, the books are not in
the best of shape, and the type is hard to read, and with so many people looking
for the books, I decided to re-do them in Electronic format.

      I ask everyone that obtains copies of this electronic document to PLEASE give
freely. These books are for educational/informational use only. These books are no
longer in publication and Spectral Associates no longer in business. Do not use
these books for financial gain, as that would most certainly abuse the Copyright
Laws that I have already bruised by re-producing them.

      Other than that, enjoy the books!! I’ll add more information to them as I get
it. I plan on adding more Memory Map information, as well as hardware info in the
coming months. But for now, take advantage of this fine resource.

                                                                      Walter K. Zydhek




                                         2
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II      INTRODUCTION               ORIGIN: SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                         REVISED:12/26/99 WALTER K ZYDHEK


                                     INTRODUCTION

      Super Extended Basic is the definitive source of information on the super
high-resolution graphics commands and Basic enhancements available from the Color
Computer 3. Super Extended Basic Unravelled will deal with the enhancements to
Color Computer Basic that make Basic versions 2.0 and higher. These Basic versions
were introduced in the Color Computer 3. Super Extended Basic follows in the fine
tradition of the Basic Unravelled series. We are proud to say that these books are
the best documentation available concerning the internal structure of Color
Computer Basic. We believe that Color and Extended Basic Unravelled were used as a
guideline during the creation of Super Extended Basic 2.0!

      Super Extended Basic Unravelled will provide the reader with a complete
detailed and fully commented source listing of the super high-resolution graphics
package of Radio Shack's COLOR BASIC. It is not within the scope of this book to
teach the neophyte how to develop his own color graphics routines. The reader will
need to have a basic knowledge of 6809 assembly language programming to be able to
take full advantage of the opportunities, which this book presents. It is also
assumed that the reader is familiar with the contents of the Color Computer 3
Extended Basic manual which contains a general description of the overall operation
of Basic and much useful information concerning the manner in which the high
resolution graphics information is processed and put on the screen. The information
and routines explained in this book will allow the user to understand how the Color
Computer's routines alter the graphics screens and even allow the user to build his
own routines to interface with the graphics routines in Super Extended Basic.

      No attempt will be made to re-explain the functions of BASIC or any routines,
which were explained in the first book of the Color Basic Unravelled series. The
reader should be aware of the fact that Super Extended Basic is not a stand-alone
system. There are many direct calls into Basic and Extended Basic. These calls are
not explained in this book and it will be necessary for the reader to refer to the
other Basic Unravelled books in order to get a full explanation of these ROM calls.
A complete memory map of the system operating variables is given in Appendix A and
a symbol table is given in Appendix C.

                            HISTORY OF THE COLOR COMPUTERS

      The original Color Computer was introduced in August of 1980 with a standard
4K of memory. Enclosed in a battleship gray case, it sold for about $400. The Color
Computer had a unique combination of random access memory (RAM) and read only
memory (ROM). There were two levels of Basic available: Color Basic and Extended
Color Basic. Disk Extended Color Basic was soon added to the group. Each of these
three levels of Basic were stored in their own ROM. The Basic ROM started at $A000,
the Extended Basic ROM at $8000, and the Disk Basic ROM was plugged into the
expansion port (ROM PAK slot) and started at $C000. Adding Extended Basic to your
system was as simple as inserting a ROM into the circuit board. The user added Disk
Basic by installing the Disk Controller into the expansion slot. This system of
adding ROMs to upgrade the system caused some problems during the design of Basic.
Several routines in Color Basic had to be changed to work in Extended Basic and
Disk Basic. However, since they are in ROM. they couldn’t be changed. The problem
was solved by the use of RAM hooks. Within Basic and Extended Basic, several
routines jump to these vectors located in lower RAM (at $15E). From here, control



                                           3
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II          INTRODUCTION              ORIGIN: SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                            REVISED:12/26/99 WALTER K ZYDHEK


can be redirected to another routine. For example, Basic has a routine that checks
for a valid device number (0=screen, -1=cassette, and -2=printer). With just Basic
installed, any other value returns an error. With Disk Basic installed, however,
the routine has to also allow numbers 1-15. The Basic routine executes a JSR to the
vector in low RAM. With just Basic installed, control is returned immediately. With
Disk Basic installed, control is re-routed into the Disk Basic ROM. to a routine
that allows values 1-15.

      The Color Computer 2 was introduced in 1983 sporting a small white case and a
new keyboard. The changes were more cosmetic than anything else. At this point,
several home computers were competing with the Color Computer, and prices were
falling fast. By combining several chips into one and replacing a few components.
the Color Computer 2 primarily allowed Tandy to produce the computer less
expensively.

      In early 1984, Tandy considered producing a new version of the Color Computer
- entitled the Deluxe - but the project was later canceled due to costs and the
planned super edition of the Color Computer: the Color Computer 3 was finally
introduced in August, 1986, six years after the original Color Computer, offering
512K and advanced graphics.

      Many legacies of the Color Computer 1 and 2 remain in the Basic ROM of the
CoCo 3. Throughout Basic, Extended Basic, and Disk Basic you will find many
sections of code that were written to deal with the three ROM system. Much of it is
unnecessary, since Basic on the CoCo is now in RAM, but was retained to insure
compatibility with previous Color Computer versions.

      In October 1983, Spectral Associates introduced a 3-volume set of books: the
Basic Unravelled series. Those who have the 3-book set will find that Super
Extended Basic Unravelled will be a welcome addition to the 3-book set. Those who
don’t already have these books should consider purchasing EXTENDED COLOR BASIC
UNRAVELLED and DISK BASIC UNRAVELLED.

                                     HOW TO USE THIS BOOK

      Most users will undoubtedly spend the majority of their time using Appendix
B, which contains a source code listing of the top half of the Color Basic 2.0 ROM.
This source code was developed independently by the author who has never seen or
had access in any way to any source code developed by Microsoft, Tandy or
Microware.

      Most labels used in Appendix B correspond to absolute addresses in ROM/RAM
preceded by an 'L'. Literal labels have been assigned to RAM variables (memory
locations that contain data which may change) and some routines and data tables.
The symbol table in Appendix C will allow the user to locate the address of the
literal label. The symbol table is composed of a long list of entries, arranged in
alphabetical order. Each entry contains an address, a type code and the actual
symbol (label) itself. The typecode maybe D, E or L. If it is a D, the symbol is a
variable name and it will be found in Appendix A. If the code is an E, the symbol
has been defined by an EQUATE pseudo-op. Almost all of the equates may be found at
the start of the variable listing in Appendix A. If the code is an L, the symbol is




                                               4
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II    INTRODUCTION                 ORIGIN: SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                         REVISED:12/26/99 WALTER K ZYDHEK


a label and will be found in Appendix B or in Extended Color Basic Unravelled’s
Appendix B.

      Super Extended Basic Unravelled only covers the top half of the CoCo 3 ROM.
Extended Color Basic Unravelled covers the bottom half of the ROM. There are
several calls from the Super Extended portion of the ROM into the bottom half that
you will not be able to follow unless you have the Extended Color Basic book. Many
people have the Unravelled series, which was produced for the CoCo 2. The Extended
Color Basic Unravelled book is essentially a merged version of the older Color
Basic Unravelled (version 1.2) and Extended Basic Unravelled (version 1.1). If you
have both of these books, Appendix I provides a listing of all of the changes made
to convert Color Basic 1.2 and Extended Basic 1.1 into the bottom half of the
Extended Color Basic 2.0 ROM. The Disk Basic ROM (1.0 or 1.1) has not been modified
at all.

      The CoCo 3 ROM (version 2.0) from addresses $C000 - $DFFF contains the code
used to initialize the system and the cute digitized picture of the authors which
you get when you hold down the ALT and CTRL keys on power up or reset. The code
located in this area must be of a temporary nature because the Disk Basic code is
loaded into this area when the contents of the ROMs are transferred to RAM. A
substantial portion of this code is used to patch Color Extended (and Disk if
there) Basic once it has been loaded into RAM. The patches make use of labels of
the following types: PATCHxx, ALINKxx and BLINKxx. The PATCHxx addresses correspond
to the actual address where the patch will be made. The ALINKxx addresses
correspond to those addresses where the patches will transfer control. The BLINKxx
addresses correspond to where the patch code will re-enter the mainstream code
after the patch code has been executed. Not all patches will have a BLINKxx type
address since control may be returned by an RTS.

      The FCS pseudo-op code is used in this listing. For those readers who are
unfamiliar with this pseudo-op, it means exactly the same as an FCC pseudo-op with
the exception that the last character in the literal string has a bias of $80 added
to it. If, for example, the last character of an FCS instruction was an E, it would
be assembled to $05 ($45+$80).




                                         5
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II      COLOR COMPUTER 3               ORIGIN: SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                      HARDWARE DIFFERENCES   REVISED:12/26/99 WALTER K ZYDHEK


                       COLOR COMPUTER 3 HARDWARE DIFFERENCES

      This chapter deals with the major hardware and software differences between
the original Color Computer and the Color Computer 3. The designers of the Color
Computer 3 were guided by several design criteria, which occasionally forced some
odd decisions. First, the CoCo 3 had to be as compatible as was possible the older
CoCos so that as much of the old CoCo software as possible would function on the
CoCo 3. Also the CoCo 3 had to be as inexpensive as possible so that it would have
a market niche (other than just selling it to CoCo 2 owners). This constraint led
to the GIME chip (or custom or tequila chip as it was also known).

                                         Memory

      The most apparent difference with the Color Computer 3 is the capability of
having up to 512K of Random Access Memory (RAM). This RAM is made up of 256K
Dynamic RAM chips. The 128K version of the computer has four (64K x 4 bit) chips,
whereas the 512K version has sixteen (256K x 1 bit) chips. Upgrading from 128K to
512K primarily consists of removing the existing RAMs and inserting the 512K
upgrade board into the provided sockets.
      It should be noted that several problems were encountered early on with the
RAMs supplied on early Color Computer 3s (the computer would crash during
manipulation of the screen in some of the horizontal virtual enable modes). These
models contained 150ns RAMs from Mitsubishi. These problems appeared to be solved
by replacing the RAMs with 150ns RAMs from Nippon Electronics Corp (NEC) or by
replacing them with 120ns parts.

                                     The GIME Chip

            The Color Computer 3 has many features not available on the original
Color Computer, including memory management, advanced interrupt processing, and
advanced graphics. All of these functions, in addition to the original Color
Computer graphics modes, are handled by one large chip referred to as the ‘GIME’
chip (pronounced “gimmee", for Graphics/Interrupt/Memory Enhancement). We will
touch on these subjects in the following paragraphs, and go into detail on them a
little later.
            The Central Processing Unit (CPU) in the Color Computer 3 is the 6809.
This processor, by its very design, is limited to accessing 64K of memory at one
time. Making this chip work in a 512K computer is, therefore, a neat trick. To do
this, a system called memory management is employed. Memory within the computer is
divided up into 8K blocks (producing 16 blocks in a 128K system, 64 blocks in
512K). From this pool of 8K blocks you may select any 8 to fill the CPU’s memory
space of 64K.
            Two additional interrupts have been added to the Color Computer 3. The
first is a timer interrupt which is a 12-bit interval timer, allowing you to set it
to any value from 0-4095. This timer is counted down, and when it goes below 0, an
interrupt may be triggered. The count is decremented every 70nsec or 63.5usec
(selectable). The other interrupt is a keyboard interrupt, causing an interrupt to
occur whenever a key or joystick button is pressed.




                                             6
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II     COLOR COMPUTER 3               ORIGIN: SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                     HARDWARE DIFFERENCES   REVISED:12/26/99 WALTER K ZYDHEK


                            Super High Resolution Graphics

      No fewer than 15 super high resolution graphics modes have been added to the
Color Computer 3, four of which are accessible from Basic. These range from 128
pixels across with 2 colors to 640 pixels across with 4 colors in addition, each
graphics mode can have any one of 4 depths (192, 200, 210, and 225 rows). This
allows up to 60 different possibilities (actually there are more...which we’ll
discuss a little later). Basic is limited to 192 vertical rows.
      In addition to the new graphics modes, the Color Computer 3 has 64 colors
available, with a maximum of 16 on the screen at a time (actually, if you do some
fancy stuff with interrupts, you can get all 64 at a time, but that’s beyond the
scope of this book). To allow up 64 different colors, palette registers were
incorporated into the GIME chip. Palette registers are discussed in detail in
Chapter Five.
      The original Color Computer allowed you to start the screen display on any
512-byte boundary. This has been improved in the Color Computer 3 to allow the
screen to be set on any eight-byte boundary. This allows a true smooth vertical
scroll. In addition, there is a technique that allows smooth horizontal scrolling.
Along with the new graphic capabilities, there are also new text modes available.
Text can be displayed with 32, 40, 64, or 80 characters-per horizontal row.
      In the Color Computer 3, you have control over the color of the border, which
you did not on the original Color Computer.

                                         Sound

            In order to keep the cost of the Color Computer 3 down, no sound chips
were installed into the computer. Sound is still generated using the CPU or the
optional Sound/Speech Cartridge.

                                         $FF22

      In the old CoCos the graphics display was taken care of by the Video Display
Generator (VDG). Controls were passed from the CPU to the VDG by way of Peripheral
Interface Adapter 1 (PIA1). The graphics display of the CoCo 3 is handled entirely
by the GIME chip, which has eliminated the need to pass controls through PIA1.
However, in order to maintain compatibility with the older CoCos, a register has
been built into the GIME chip which will retain any information written to the old
VDG control bits of $FF22. This internal GIME chip register is not accessible by
the user and any data returned by reading $FF22 will come from PIA1, not from the
GIME chip. The PIA1 bits, which provided control to the VDG in the older CoCos, are
not used in the CoCo 3. Bit 2 of $FF22 (RAMSZ) is also not used - there is no
hardware flag in the CoCo 3 to tell the user if the system contains 128K or 512K.
      The existence of the GIME chip’s internal $FF22 register has allowed the
addition of some extra features to the CoCo 3's CoCo compatible mode (32 column).
Bits 4 (upper/lower case) and 5 (invert) can be used to invert the foreground and
background colors of the text screen or to allow true lower case characters.
      If bit 4 = 0, the ASCII codes from 0-31 will be the inverse video
representations of the codes from 64-95. If bit 4 = 1, the ASCII codes from 0-31
will contain lower case characters. Appendix I contains a complete chart of theses
codes. If bit 5 = 0, the text screen will be black characters on a green
background. If bit 5 = 1, the text screen will be green characters on a black
background.



                                            7
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II        COLOR COMPUTER 3               ORIGIN: SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                        HARDWARE DIFFERENCES   REVISED:12/26/99 WALTER K ZYDHEK



                             Peculiarities and Compromises

      During the design of the Color Computer 3, Tandy was particularly careful to
insure, as much as possible, that all software written for the original Color
Computers would work on the Color Computer 3. This involved some peculiarities and
compromises.
      Tandy’s primary method of insuring this compatibility was to have a mode of
operation similar to the original Color Computer. This mode is referred to as the
CoCo compatible Mode, and is active when bit 7 of $FF90 is set. In this mode the
primary difference is that the SAM registers (used to set graphics modes and screen
addresses in the original Color Computer) are enabled. When this bit is cleared,
you are in the CoCo 3 mode and the video display and vertical offset modes of the
SAM registers are disabled.
      The original Color Computer was limited to 64K, and Basic was designed to
operate within that constraint. Since making Basic work with more than 64K would
have required major changes in Basic (which would mean software would be
incompatible), Basic still is limited to 64K (32K for operating system code, 32K
for workspace). It should be noted that a few commands do access memory outside of
this 64K range (LPEEK, LPOKE, HGET, HSCREEN, etc.), but the Basic program is
limited to this 64K block. Several enhancements were made to Basic, though,
including super high-resolution graphics (up to 640 x 192) and a 40 or 80 column
text mode. Fortunately, both the super hi-res graphics screen and the 40/80-column
text screen are located outside of the 32K workspace (unlike the original Color
Computers, where memory for these were taken out of the workspace). Additionally, a
super hi-res HGET/HPUT buffer is located outside of the workspace. This means that
high-resolution graphics and text can be achieved without sacrificing workspace. Of
course while Basic can’t have more than 32K for its program, machine language
programs have full use of the 128K or 512K that you have in your system.
      Most of the original Color Computer graphics modes have been implemented in
the Color Computer 3. However, the Semigraphics 4 mode (the standard 32 column text
screen) is the only semigraphics mode available. Any software using the other
semigraphics modes will not display properly on the Color Computer 3.

                                     Other Differences

      One of the important aspects of memory management is insuring that the code
the CPU must execute is always in place. For example, you can’t tell the memory
management unit (MMU) to move in a new memory section when the CPU is getting its
instructions from the section you’re replacing. This is critically important with
interrupts. When an interrupt occurs, which could happen anytime, control of the
CPU must be transferred to a safe area of memory. The area from $FE00-$FEFF is
especially good for this purpose since it is a special area of the logical address
space. Bit 3 of INIT0 may be used to exempt this area from the effects of the MMU
registers, thus guaranteeing that the RAM in this area is constant regardless of
the changing contents of the MMU registers. Programs written for the original Color
Computer that try to use the top of this area of RAM will most likely not work on
the CoCo 3 because the CoCo 3 routes its interrupt vectors through there.
      There are four new keys on the CoCo 3’s keyboard. The OS-9 operating system
uses the Control (CTRL) and Alternate (ALT) keys. Basic doesn’t use or recognize
any of the new keys (except on power-on, as described below).




                                               8
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II     COLOR COMPUTER 3               ORIGIN: SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                     HARDWARE DIFFERENCES   REVISED:12/26/99 WALTER K ZYDHEK


      One of the popular graphic modes on the original Color Computer is the
artifacting mode. This mode, accessed from Basic by the command PMODE 4:SCREEN 1,1,
allows 128 x 192 graphics with red, blue, black, and white colors. Depending upon
how the computer fired up, the red and blue colors may be switched, so most
programs ask you to press the reset button to change the colors. On the Color
Computer 3, these colors will fire up in a uniform way, and pressing reset alone
won’t change anything. If, when you press reset or turn on the computer, you hold
the F1 key down, the colors will be reversed. This method allows full compatibility
with previous Color Computer software.
      The original Color Computer had the capability of working at double the clock
speed (referred to as double speed). This didn’t work in all machines, and was
never supported by Tandy. The Color Computer 3 is guaranteed to work in double
speed which can be turned on by storing data at $FFD9, and turned off by storing
data at $FFD8. Note that the Sound/Speech Cartridge (SSC) does not work in the
double speed mode. At the time of this writing, there is no hardware fix to allow
the SSC to work in double speed, but it is expected that several fixes will be
available soon. The fix would undoubtedly not be supported by Tandy.
      The Color Computer 3 also supports two button joysticks or mice. Super
Extended Basic and OS-9 Level Two will allow you to read the second joystick
button.
      The last major addition to the Color Computer 3 is the inclusion of composite
and RGB output. This was primarily done to allow reasonable display of the super
high-resolution graphics. The computer may be connected to any standard composite
monitor or any analog RGB monitor (this is different than TTL RGB or RGBI).




                                            9
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II       MEMORY MANAGEMENT              ORIGIN: SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                              REVISED:12/26/99 WALTER K ZYDHEK


                                     MEMORY MANAGEMENT

      The 6809 microprocessor can only address 64K of memory. In order to address
more than 64K, a method must be found which will allow the user to switch different
blocks of memory into the CPU’s address space. The ability to perform this function
is generally referred to as ‘memory management'. There are as many different ways
to implement a memory management scheme as there are different computers in the
world, and each method will have its own strong points and limitations. In the
Color Computer 3, the GIME chip performs the Memory Management Unit (MMU) function.
      The GIME chip will allow 512K of RAM to be accessed by the CoCo 3. This 512K-
address range is called the physical address space. The physical address space is
broken down into 64 blocks of 8K each. The six high order bits of any address ($0-
$7FFFF) are the block number. In a 128K machine that means that there will be 16
blocks which will actually have RAM in them, and the other 48 blocks will be
treated as three sets of 16 blocks all three of which are mirrors of the high order
16 blocks. A 512K machine will, of course, have 64 blocks of RAM. The GIME chip
determines this configuration and there is no known way at this time to trick,
fool, or otherwise cajole the chip into allowing you to hang more RAM on the system
without adding hardware to the computer. From this pool of 64 8K blocks you may
select any eight to fill the CPU’s memory space of 64K. The 64K range, which
comprises the address range of the CPU, is referred to as the logical address
space. In order to simplify the task of understanding how this is done, it is best
for the reader to discard the concept of the fixed memory map of the computer’s
memory. From the point of view of the CPU, the Color Computer 3’s RAM is not one
large contiguous block from 0 - $7FFFF. This will undoubtedly cause a certain
amount of confusion because the video display section of the Color Computer 3 does
consider the RAM as one large contiguous block.
      Now, you may ask, if the memory is to be considered as 64 blocks of 8K, how
does the CPU know where its memory is. That job is performed by the MMU registers
which are located at $FFA0. The eight blocks, which you select as the CPU’s memory,
are mapped into the CPU’s address space by the MMU registers as shown in Figure 1.

             MMU Register             CPU Address Space      Logical block number
                 $FFA7                   $E000-$FDFF                   7
                 $FFA6                   $C000-$DFFF                   6
                 $FFA5                   $A000-$BFFF                   5
                 $FFA4                   $8000-$9FFF                   4
                 $FFA3                   $6000-$7FFF                   3
                 $FFA2                   $4000-$5FFF                   2
                 $FFA1                   $2000-$3FFF                   1
                 $FFA0                   $0000-$1FFF                   0

                        Figure 1 - Memory Management Unit Registers

      It is important to thoroughly understand the concept of memory blocks. The
physical address space is composed of 64 physical blocks (they will be referred to
simply as blocks). The logical address space is the range of $0-$FFFF which can be
addressed by the CPU. The logical address space should be considered as composed of
eight 8K blocks of RAM. The MMU registers determine which eight of the 64 blocks
from the physical address space will compose the logical address space. As a
natural extension, the logical address space may be thought of as being composed of
eight logical blocks. The logical blocks are numbered from 0-7 as described in



                                              10
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II     MEMORY MANAGEMENT             ORIGIN: SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                           REVISED:12/26/99 WALTER K ZYDHEK


Figure 1 above. The logical blocks are not really actual memory (the physical
blocks are actual memory), they are an 8K address space in the address range of the
CPU and their position relative to one another may not change in the eyes of the
CPU.
      The MMU registers have no effect whatsoever on the manner in which the GIME
chip displays graphic or text information. For the purpose of graphics, the 512K is
considered as one large contiguous super chunk of RAM. In order to make this easier
to understand since we are in a "block" frame of mind, just consider the video
display memory as 64 contiguous 8K blocks. In other words, the video display memory
is just the physical address space and there is no way to move the blocks relative
to one another.
      The process of setting up the CPUs memory space requires that you select
eight blocks, which will comprise the logical address space. Then you must program
the MMU registers with the block numbers selected. For example, if you wanted block
56 ($38) to occupy the CPU addresses 0 - $1FFF (logical block 0), you must store
the value $38 into address $FFA0. If you wanted the high 64K of RAM of either a
128K or 512K machine to occupy the logical address space as one contiguous 64K
segment, you just load the values $38 - $3F consecutively into the consecutive
addresses $FFA0 - $FFA7. This is how Basic sets up the CPU’s memory space.
      It is important to realize that there is no prohibition against using the
same block in more than one block of the logical address space. If you put the same
block number in all of the MMU registers, then the same 8K block of RAM would be
mapped into all eight of the logical blocks.
      As an example of the power and flexibility which this system of memory
management offers, we will consider the logical address space arrangement used by
Basic to manipulate super hi-res graphic screens. It is not possible to read data
from or write data into the Color Computer 3’s memory unless the memory is in the
logical address space. For example, if you wanted to read address $4F859, you would
not be able to unless block 39 had been mapped into a logical block by an MMU
register. Or, put another way, the value 39 must be in one of the MMU registers
($FFA0 - $FFA7). Basic allocates 32K of memory for its super hi-res graphics
screen. In order to manipulate the screen, the 32K screen must be in the logical
address space. The bottom 32K of memory in a 128K system ($60000 - $67FFF) is used
for the super hi-res screen by Basic. In order to access the screen, this memory is
mapped into logical block 1 as shown in Figure 2. Block numbers 48-51 are the super
hi-res graphics screen. Block 56 must remain in logical block 0 because it contains
all of Basic’s system variables and interrupt vectors, and block 63 must remain in
logical block 7 because it contains the Basic program code, which manipulates the
super hi-res graphics screen. Block 53 is moved into logical block 6 (overlaying
Disk Basic) and is used as the HPUT/HGET buffer.

            MMU             Block         Logical        Physical
          Register          Number      Block Number     Address
           $FFA7              63             7        $7E000-$7FFFF Program
           $FFA6              53             6        $6A000-$6BFFF HGET Buffer
           $FFA5              61             5        $7A000-$7BFFF Program
           $FFA4              51             4        $66000-$67FFF Screen
           $FFA3              50             3        $64000-$65FFF Screen
           $FFA2              49             2        $62000-$63FFF Screen
           $FFA1              48             1        $60000-$61FFF Screen
           $FFA0              56             0        $70000-$71FFF System DP
                     Figure 2 - Super Hi-Res Graphics Memory Configuration



                                            11
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II        MEMORY MANAGEMENT                ORIGIN: SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                 REVISED:12/26/99 WALTER K ZYDHEK




      There is one final aspect of the Color Computer 3’s memory management system,
which must be addressed. The Color Computer 3 has two sets of MMU registers. The
first set of eight registers located at $FFA0 should be very familiar to you by
now. The second set of eight registers is located at $FFA8 and their function is
identical to that of the first set in every aspect. Bit 0 of initialization
register 1 ($FF91) is used to determine which one of the sets of registers is
determining the makeup of the logical address space. If bit 0 if $FF91 is set to
zero, then the eight MMU registers at $FFA0 (task register 0) control the makeup of
the logical address space. If bit 0 of $FF91 is set, then the eight MMU registers
at $FFA8 (task register 1) control the makeup of the logical address space (see
Figure 3). The theory behind the two sets of registers is that each set of
registers may be allowed to control a different task by allocating two independent
segments of 64K to each task and then simply selecting the desired set of registers
in order to enable the desired task. This will work fine but you must be careful to
remember that switching between the task registers will do nothing to preserve the
status of the CPU registers, nor will it protect you from disasters if you should
be interrupted during the transition. Whenever new memory is switched into a
logical address space, be sure it isn’t where the program counter, stack, or
interrupt service routine is located. Major problems may happen it is:

       If the MMU registers have                        Then the following blocks
         the data below in them                     compose the logical address space
                                                                   $FF91       $FF91
                                                                  bit0=0      bit0=1
         $FFA0 24        $FFA8 34                     $0000         24          34
         $FFA1 26        $FFA9 56                     $2000         26          56
         $FFA2 15        $FFAA 43                     $4000         15          43
         $FFA3 56        $FFAB 34                     $6000         56          34
         $FFA4 41        $FFAC 35                     $8000         41          35
         $FFAS 42        $FFAD 08                     $A000         42          08
         $FFA6 62        $FFAE 36                     $C000         62          36
         $FFA7 61        $FFAF 00                     $E000         61          00

                                 Figure 3 - MMU task registers


      Special notes:
1) All of the MMU registers may be read from as well as written to. However, only
the lower 6 bits of data are accurate. The top two bits should be masked off after
they are read. Also, in order to enable the MMU registers, bit 6 of $FF90 must be
set.
2) The CoCo enable bit (bit 7, $FF90) does not have any effect upon the operation
of the MMU registers. The MMU enable bit (bit 6, $FF90) must be set in order for
the MMU registers to be operable.
3) The area from $FF00 - $FFFF is used for system input/output and is never
affected by the MMU registers. The area from $FE00 - $FEFF is a special page (256
bytes) of RAM and may be affected by the MMU registers if MC3 (bit 3, $FF90) is
clear.




                                               12
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II    SUPER HIGH RESOLUTION             ORIGIN: SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                            GRAPHICS          REVISED:12/26/99 WALTER K ZYDHEK


                            SUPER HIGH RESOLUTION GRAPHICS

      The CoCo 3 will support several, new-high resolution graphics and
alphanumeric text modes in addition to most of the older low-resolution graphics
and alphanumeric modes of the CoCo 2. The only CoCo 2 alphanumeric mode supported
by the CoCo 3 is the semi-graphics 4 mode.
      The characteristics of the graphics modes are controlled by the graphics
control registers ($FF98-$FF9F). These registers are write-only registers
(attempting to read these registers will not return accurate data). The graphics
control registers can have their function modified by the CoCo compatible bit (bit
7, $FF90) and the BP bit (bit 7, $FF98). It is important to realize that certain
graphics control registers will be valid only if the COCO and BP bits are set up in
a certain way. You may be able to produce interesting effects if you violate these
restrictions, but you will have no guarantee that the effect will be supported by
future versions of the Color Computer (if there are to be any future versions).
      The GIME chip treats the system RAM as one contiguous 512K block for the
purposes of video display. In a 128K system the true RAM is at the top of the
physical address space and there are three 128K images below it. The graphics
control registers are used to define the size of the screen and place it anywhere
within the 512K that you wish. If you wish to modify the contents of a high
resolution graphics or text screen, you must use the MMU registers to place that
portion of the screen into the logical address space of the CPU in order to change
the data - remember that the MMU registers will NOT affect the manner in which the
screen is DISPLAYED but you must use them in order to change the data.
      One last warning: be careful how you use the COCO and BP bits. You may get
some interesting effects if you set both of these bits, but it may bite you in the
end. We cannot say what the results will be if you use a mode which is not
specifically defined. All of the video control registers are designed to be used
when the COCO bit is cleared with the notable exception of the vertical offset
registers. A condensed summary of the control registers is contained in Appendix D.

The registers from FF90 - FF97 are general-purpose control registers for the GIME
chip

FF90 Initialization register 0                                          INIT0

      Bit 7          COCO 1=CoCo compatible mode
      Bit 6          MMUEN 1=MMU enabled
      Bit 5          IEN   1 = GIME chip IRQ enabled
      Bit 4          FEN   1 = GIME chip FIRQ enabled
      Bit 3          MC3   1 = RAM at FEXX is constant
      Bit 2          MC2   1 = standard SCS (Spare Chip Select)
      Bit 1          MC1   ROM map control
      Bit 0          MC0   ROM map control

      COCO: This bit is used to toggle the CoCo compatible mode on and off. The
term CoCo compatible mode is somewhat of a misnomer as there are some CoCo 2
graphics modes, which are not supported by the CoCo 3, and some of the video
control registers are active even when the COCO bit is in the CoCo compatible mode.
The programmer is best advised to use this bit for exactly what it was intended for
- to be set when you are using CoCo 2 graphics modes and to be clear when you are
using the new CoCo 3 graphics modes. The descriptions of the CoCo 3 registers given



                                             13
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II        SUPER HIGH RESOLUTION             ORIGIN: SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                GRAPHICS          REVISED:12/26/99 WALTER K ZYDHEK


below will explicitly state those instances in which the programmer should use the
new registers with the COCO bit set.

MMUEN: When this bit is set the MMU registers are enabled. If this
       bit is clear, the MMU registers are inoperable and the 64K,
       which makes up the logical address space is, the contiguous
       segment from $70000 - $7FFFF.
IEN:   When this bit is set, the GIME chip’s IRQ Interrupt structure
       is enabled. If the bit is clear, the old CoCo 2 PIA IRQ
       interrupt structure is used.
FEN:   When this bit is set, the GIME chip’s FIRQ Interrupt structure
       is enabled. If the bit is clear, the old CoCo 2 PIA FIRQ
       interrupt structure is used.
 MC3: When this bit is set, the RAM which occupies the CPU’s address
       range of $FE00-$FEFF will always be taken from $7FE00-$.7FEFF.
       If this bit is clear and the MMUEN bit is set the RAM in the
       CPU’s address range of $FE00-$FEFF will be taken from the
       block as specified by the MMU register controlling logical
       block 7.
 MC2: Spare Chip Select (SCS) control; if 0, then the SCS line (to
       the expansion slot) will only be active in the $FF50-$FF5F
       range. If this bit is 1, then the SCS line will be active in
       the $FF40-$FF5F range.
 MC1: ROM map control
 MC0: ROM map control

      MC1     MC0    ROM configuration
       0       X     16K internal, 16K external
       1       0     32K internal
       1       1     32K external (except interrupt vectors)

FF91 Initialization register 1                                              INIT1

      Bit 7          Unused
      Bit 6          Unused
      Bit 5          TINS            Timer input select; 1 = 70 nsec, 0 = 63.5 usec
      Bit 4          Unused
      Bit 3          Unused
      Bit 2          Unused
      Bit 1          Unused
      Bit 0          TR              Task register select

      TINS: This bit controls the clock input to the 12-bit interval timer. If the
bit is set, the input source will be 14.31818 MHz which will produce a clock pulse
approximately every 70 nanoseconds. If the bit is clear, the input source will be
the horizontal blanking pulse which will produce a clock pulse approximately every
63.5 microseconds.
      TR: If this bit is set, then $FFA8-$FFAF will be the active MMU registers, if
the bit is clear, then $FFA0-$FFA7 will be the active MMU registers.

FF92 Interrupt request enable register                                      IRQENR

      Bit 7          Unused


                                                 14
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II        SUPER HIGH RESOLUTION              ORIGIN: SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                GRAPHICS           REVISED:12/26/99 WALTER K ZYDHEK


       Bit 6         Unused
       Bit 5         TMR             Timer interrupt
       Bit 4         HBORD           Horizontal border interrupt
       Bit 3         VBORD           Vertical border interrupt
       Bit 2         EI2             Serial data interrupt
       Bit 1         EI1             Keyboard interrupt
       Bit 0         EI0             Cartridge interrupt

TMR:   A timer interrupt is generated whenever the 12-bit interval
       timer ($FF94-$FF95) counts down to zero.
HBORD: The horizontal border interrupt is generated on the falling
       edge of the horizontal sync pulse.
VBORD: The vertical border interrupt is generated on the falling edge
       of the vertical sync pulse.
EI2:   The serial data interrupt is generated on the falling edge of
       a signal on pin 4 of the serial I/O connector (JK 3).
EI1:   The keyboard interrupt will be triggered whenever a zero
       appears on any one of the PA0-PA6 pins of PIA0. These pins are
       normally programmed as inputs and are used to read the
       keyboard. The programmer should be warned that it is not
       chiseled into tablets of granite that these pins remain inputs
       - some interesting effects may be had by programming one as an
       output and using it to generate an interrupt. In their normal
       condition as inputs, an interrupt will be generated if a key
       is pressed and the proper keyboard column is strobed by
       placing a zero in the correct column strobe register ($FF00)
       bit OR if a joystick fire button is pressed. It is Important
       to note that a keyboard interrupt cannot be generated if there
       is not at least one zero in the keyboard column strobe
       register (ignoring joystick fire buttons). Also note that
       there is no way to mask off the joystick fire buttons - they
       will always generate a keyboard interrupt.
 EI0: A cartridge interrupt will be generated on the falling edge of
       a Signal found on pin 8 (CART) of the expansion connector.
FF93 Fast interrupt request enable register                                  FIRQENR

       Bit 7         Unused
       Bit 6         Unused
       Bit 5         TMR             Timer interrupt
       Bit 4         HBORD           Horizontal border interrupt
       Bit 3         VBORD           Vertical border interrupt
       Bit 2         EI2             Serial border interrupt
       Bit 1         EI1             Keyboard interrupt
       Bit 0         EI0             Cartridge interrupt

       The bits of FIRQENR are defined identically to those of IRQENR.

FF94 Timer register MSB

       Bits 4-7      Unused
       Bits 0-3      High order four bits of the timer




                                                 15
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II        SUPER HIGH RESOLUTION             ORIGIN: SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                GRAPHICS          REVISED:12/26/99 WALTER K ZYDHEK


        See the description of the timer register low order bits ($FF95).

FF95 Timer register LSB

        Bits 0-7     Low order eight bits of the timer

      The 12-bit interval timer located at $FF94-$FF95 may be set to any value from
0 to 4095. When a value is loaded into the timer MS byte, the count will be
automatically started. The timer will count down (it cannot count up) until it gets
to zero at which time the initial count will be reloaded and the count down will
restart. If the timer registers are loaded with 0, the count down process will be
inhibited. The clock input to the timer may be either 14.31818 MHz or 15.734 KHz as
selected by bit 5 of INIT1.

FF96 Reserved

FF97 Reserved

      The registers from $FF98 - $FF9F are the video control registers and are used
to control the new video modes of the GIME chip.

FF98 Video Mode Register

        Bit 7        BP              0 = Text modes, 1 = Graphics modes
        Bit 6                        Unused
        Bit 5        BPI             Burst Phase Invert (Color Set)
        Bit 4        MOCH            1 = Monochrome on Composite
        Bit 3        H50             1 = 50 Hz power, 0 = 60 Hz power
        Bits 0-2     LPR             Lines per row

BP:       (Bit Plane): Determines whether the computer is to display graphics or
          text. If this bit is set to 0, the screen is displayed as text. If it is 1,
          graphics are displayed.
BPI:      Setting this bit will put you in the alternate color set. Technically, this
          bit tells the computer to invert the color burst phase going to the TV or
          composite monitor. Setting this bit will reverse the red and blue colors in
          the artifacting mode.
MOCH:     When this bit is set to 1, the composite (including TV) output of the Color
          Computer 3 is changed to black and white (monochrome). This allows easier
          reading and better resolution in higher resolution text and graphics modes.
          This bit will not affect the RGB display.
H50:      If this bit is set, the power source is 50 Hertz, if the bit is clear; the
          power source is 60 Hz.
LPR:      (Lines Per character Row): These bits determine the number of vertical
          lines used for each character in the text display. The one, two and three
          lines per row settings have little practical value, as the character itself
          is seven rows high. Changing the setting will not change the size of the
          character; it will only change the number of rows between characters. These
          settings only affect the way text is displayed on the screen; it has no
          effect on the amount of memory used to contain the screen data.

             Bit pattern             Lines per character row
              xxxxx000                     One line


                                                 16
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II     SUPER HIGH RESOLUTION             ORIGIN: SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                             GRAPHICS          REVISED:12/26/99 WALTER K ZYDHEK


               xxxxx001                Two lines
               xxxxx010                Three lines
               xxxxx011                Eight lines
               xxxxx100                Nine lines
               xxxxx101                Ten lines
               xxxxx110                Twelve lines
               xxxxx111                Reserved


FF99 Video Resolution Register

      The Video Resolution Register controls the resolution and colors displayed on
the computer.

      Bit 7                            Undefined
      Bits 5-6       LPF               Lines per Field (Number of Rows)
      Bits 2-4       HRES              Horizontal Resolution
      Bits 0-1       CRES              Color Resolution

      LPF: These two bits determine the number of vertical rows on the high-
resolution graphics display.

      Bit Pattern           Rows Displayed
       x00xxxxx                   192
       x01xxxxx                   200
       x10xxxxx                   210
       x11xxxxx                   225


      HRES: These three bits (HR0-HR2) determine the horizontal resolution. The
HRES bits set the display to a specific number of bytes (not pixels) across the
screen.
                                    BP=1                    BP=0
            Bit Pattern       Bytes/Row (Graphics)    Text Resolution
             xxx111xx               160               80 Characters/Row
             xxx110xx               128               64 Characters/Row
             xxx101xx               80                80 Characters/Row
             xxx100xx               64                64 Characters/Row
             xxx011xx               40                40 Characters/Row
             xxx010xx               32                32 Characters/Row
             xxx001xx               20                40 Characters/Row
             xxx000xx               16                32 Characters/Row


      CRES: If BP=1, these two bits (CR0-CR1) determine the number of colors
available and the number of pixels contained in each byte. Multiplying pixels/byte
by the bytes hi each row will give you the number of pixels in each row.
      If BP=0, then bit 1 has no effect and bit 0 is the attribute enable flag. If
attributes are not enabled, the number of characters appearing on the hi-res text
screen is determined by the number of characters per row set by the HRES bits, the
number of rows displayed as set by the LPF bits and the number of lines per row as
set by the LPR bits of the video mode register. If the attributes are enabled, the



                                              17
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II         SUPER HIGH RESOLUTION                ORIGIN: SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                 GRAPHICS             REVISED:12/26/99 WALTER K ZYDHEK


number of bytes required to display a hi-res text screen is doubled. Each character
byte is followed by an attribute byte as defined in Figure 4. Therefore, if
attributes are enabled, all even bytes are character bytes, the make-up of which is
determined by the GIME chip’s internal character generator, and all odd bytes are
attribute bytes. If the blink bit is set, the characters will blink at a rate which
is determined by the interval timer ($FF94, 5). If the timer is set to zero the
characters will not blink. The foreground colors are controlled by palette register
numbers 8-15 and the background colors are controlled by palette register numbers
0-7. Attributes are not available if COCO=1.

                                             BP=1                    BP=0
                                      Colors      Pixels/
      Bit Pattern                    Available     Byte            Attributes
       xxxxxx11                      Undefined   Undefined          enabled
       xxxxxxl0                         16          2               disabled
       xxxxxx01                         4           4               enabled
       xxxxxx00                         2           8               disabled

      Bit 7          BLINK           1=Character blinks
      Bit 6          UNDLN           1=Character is underlined
      Bit 5          FGND2           Foreground Color (MSB)
      Bit 4          FGND1           Foreground Color
      Bit 3          FGND0           Foreground Color (LSB)
      Bit 2          BGND2           Background Color (MSB)
      Bit 1          BGND1           Background Color
      Bit 0          BGND0           Background Color (LSB)

                                     Figure 4 - Attribute byte

      Summarized in Figure 5 are all of the allowed high-resolution graphics modes
allowed on the CoCo 3. You will notice that not all possible combinations of the
CRES and HRES bits are given below. Only those combinations listed below are
guaranteed and any other combinations, although they may appear cute and useful ARE
NOT GUARANTEED TO BE SUPPORTED IN FUTURE VERSIONS OF THE COCO.

      HR2   HR1     HR0    CR1       CR0           Graphics mode
       1     1       1      0         1            640 pixels, 4 colors
       1     0       1      0         0            640 pixels, 2 colors
       1     1       0      0         1            512 pixels, 4 colors
       1     0       0      0         0            512 pixels, 2 colors
       1     1       1      1         0            320 pixels, 16 colors
       1     0       1      0         1            320 pixels, 4 colors
       0     1       1      0         0            320 pixels, 2 colors
       1     1       0      1         0            256 pixels, 16 colors
       1     0       0      0         1            256 pixels, 4 colors
       0     1       0      0         0            256 pixels, 2 colors
       1     0       1      1         0            160 pixels, 16 colors
       0     1       1      0         1            160 pixels, 4 colors
       0     0       1      0         0            160 pixels, 2 colors
       1     0       0      1         0            128 pixels, 16 colors
       0     1       0      0         1            128 pixels, 4 colors
       0     0       0      0         0            128 pixels, 2 colors



                                                  18
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II        SUPER HIGH RESOLUTION              ORIGIN: SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                GRAPHICS           REVISED:12/26/99 WALTER K ZYDHEK




                           Figure 5 - High-resolution graphics modes


      * The 320-pixel, 2-color mode is not guaranteed to work at all possible
starting addresses of the high-resolution screen.


FF9A Border Register

       Bits 6,7                      Unused
       Bits 0-5      BRDR            Border color

      This register controls the color of the border around the text or graphics
screen. To set the border color, simply store the appropriate color code (composite
or RGB) in the register. The colors available for use as a border color may be
found in Appendix D.

FF9B Unused

FF9C Vertical Scroll Register

       Bits 4-7                      Reserved
       Bits 0-3      VSC             Vertical Scroll bits

      The Vertical Scroll Register is used to allow smooth vertical scrolling while
in the hi-res text modes, and is used in conjunction with the LPR bits of the video
mode register. By storing consecutively larger numbers in the VSC bits, the screen
will scroll up one graphics row at a time. This will continue until you reach the
lines per character row value that was set by the LPR bits. Once you reach this
value, to continue scrolling you should reset the vertical scroll register and then
use the vertical offset registers to move the display down one entire character
row.

FF9D, FF9E Vertical Offset Registers

      The Vertical Offset Registers combine to determine the address (Y15-Y0) in
memory where the video display starts when in the non—CoCo compatible mode. The
video display is treated as one large contiguous block, starting at $00000 and
extending to $7FFFF (if the system has only 128K, the RAM is located from $60000 to
$7FFFF and is mirrored into lower RAM in three 128K sections). The screen can be
set to start on any 8-byte boundary. The video display address is set by taking the
desired address, dividing it by 8, and storing that value in the vertical offset
registers.


 Y15   Y14 Y13 Y12 Y11 Y10 Y9              Y8          Y7    Y6   Y5   Y4   Y3   Y2  Y1       Y0
        Vertical offset 1 ($FF9D)                             Vertical offset 0 ($FF9E)

             Figure 6 Vertical offset registers (non-CoCo compatible mode)

      Setting the screen display address while in the CoCo compatible mode is
different than the non-CoCo compatible mode. The address is set using a combination


                                                 19
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II        SUPER HIGH RESOLUTION              ORIGIN: SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                GRAPHICS           REVISED:12/26/99 WALTER K ZYDHEK


of the vertical offset registers and the Synchronous Address Multiplexer’s (SAM)
display offset register, located from $FFC6 to $FFD3 (see Figure 8). The vertical
offset registers are used to position the video display within the 512K-address
space as shown in Figure 7. The three high order bits of $FF9D (YH0-YH2) determine
in which 64K segment of the physical address space the start of the video display
will be found. By setting the SAM display offset register; you can specify a 512-
byte offset that will be added to the segment boundary as defined by YH0 - YH2. The
bottom five bits of $FF9E (YL0-YL5) allow you to further refine the start of the
video display to any eight byte boundary. The video starting address may be
determined by the following formula: start = YH*64K+SAM*512+YL*8 where SAM
represents the value of the SAM display offset register.

 YH2   YH1 YH0    X   X    X    X          X           X     X   VL5 VL4 VL3 VL2 VL1         VL0
        Vertical offset 1 ($FF9D)                            Vertical offset 0 ($FF9E)

               Figure 7 Vertical offset registers (CoCo compatible mode)

FF9F Horizontal Offset Register

       Bit 7         HVEN            Horizontal Virtual Enable
       Bits 0-6      X0-X6           Horizontal Offset Address

      The Horizontal Offset Register allows you to add a horizontal offset to the
video display. The value in the bottom 7 bits of this register is multiplied by two
and added to the beginning screen address set in the vertical offset registers. For
example, setting this register to 3 will make the screen appear to shift left 6
bytes.
      One of the more interesting features incorporated into the Color Computer 3
is the horizontal virtual enable mode, which is turned on by setting bit 7 of the
horizontal offset register to 1. When you are in this mode, the screen width is
forced to be 256 bytes across. The value stored in the video resolution register
determines how many bytes of this 256 byte wide screen will be displayed.
      This may sound confusing, but let’s try an example. First the graphics mode
is set up by storing a $16 in the video resolution register (this sets the screen
display to 80 bytes across). Next we store a $C000 (the screen address) into the
vertical offset registers. Lastly, we store a $80 into the horizontal offset
register, turning on the horizontal virtual enable feature. The screen now displays
80 bytes of a 256 byte wide screen. The display starts at $60000. Now, simply by
storing an $81 into the horizontal offset register, the screen scrolls left 2
bytes. We are now looking at a screen displaying 80 bytes of a 256-byte wide
screen. The display starts at $60002.
      By using the horizontal virtual enable along with the vertical offset
registers, you can effectively have a “window” displaying memory on a 256-byte wide
screen, extending vertically as high as memory will allow. In addition, when the
seam (where the ends of the rows meet the start of the rows) is displayed, the
display is adjusted to make the two ends of the rows join together. This is truly
one of the more exciting features in the Color Computer 3.
      The horizontal offset addresses are intended to be used while the horizontal
virtual enable mode is on, and peculiar things happen when horizontal offsets are
used while not in the horizontal virtual enable mode. Let’s say, for example, you
set up a screen that is 160 bytes wide (e.g. HSCREEN 2). Since the horizontal
virtual enable is off, the video display circuitry recognizes that each row



                                                 20
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II        SUPER HIGH RESOLUTION             ORIGIN: SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                GRAPHICS          REVISED:12/26/99 WALTER K ZYDHEK


consists of 160 bytes, and each row starts 160 bytes after the start of the
previous row (makes sense...). However, the horizontal offset circuitry does not
recognize the graphics mode, and tries to force a 256 byte wide screen. This is not
a problem when the horizontal offset register is set to 0. However, conflicts occur
when other values are stored in the horizontal offset register and the horizontal
virtual enable mode is off.
      The results of this conflict are: 1) The horizontal offset circuitry displays
the row as if it were 256 bytes wide. The first 160 bytes of the row are taken from
the current row. The next 96 bytes (160 + 96 = 256) of the row are obtained from
the beginning of the next row and 2) The video display circuitry starts each row
160 bytes past the start of the previous row. These two factors together appear to
mirror the first 96 bytes of the screen into the 96 bytes following the screen as
it is scrolled horizontally.
      This effect is moderately interesting, but has few practical uses. Since it
is probably the result of a compromise in the computer design, this effect will
probably not be supported in future versions of the Color Computer. The horizontal
offset is most efficiently used only if the horizontal virtual enable bit is set.


                       Synchronous Address Multiplexer (SAM)

      The Synchronous Address Multiplexer is a special purpose chip used in the
older CoCos to control the addressing of the various chips in the CoCo such as the
RAMs, ROMs and the PIAs. This function has been incorporated into the GIME chip and
the SAM control registers have been retained in the addressing arrangement of the
GIME chip in order to provide compatibility with the older CoCos. The SAM registers
are located from $FFC0-$FFDF and each pair of addresses in this range represents
one bit of a SAM control register. The bits are cleared by writing any data to the
even numbered bit, and set by writing any data to the odd numbered bit. Only those
registers listed in Figure 8 are active in the CoCo 3.
      In the old CoCos, the CPU speed was-controlled by two bits and true double
speed could not be obtained without losing the video display. The CoCo 3 allows
true, non-address dependent double speed so the CPU rate only requires one bit -
either single or double speed.
      The map type bit controls the ROM select lines of the GIME chip. If it is
clear, the ROM select lines are allowed to be active and the MC1 and MC0 bits of
INIT0 specify the configuration of the ROM. If it is set, none of the ROM select
lines are allowed to be active and the system ROM is disabled.
      While in the CoCo compatible mode the SAM chip selects the 512-byte boundary
(within the 64K segment specified by the YH2-YH0 bits) where the screen display
will start. This is done by setting or clearing the appropriate display offset
register bits. For example, to set the SAM to an offset of $400 you would set bit
F1 of the SAM display offset and clear the other SAM display offset bits. This is
done by writing any data to addresses $FFC6, $FFC9, $FFCA, $FFCC, $FFCE, $FFD0, and
$FFD2.
      The display mode control and the display offset registers have no effect in
the non-CoCo compatible mode.

          Address                          SAM Register Bit
      $FFDE,F     TY                 map type: 0=ROM,1=RAM
      $FFD8,9     R1                 CPU rate: 0=normal, 1=double speed
      $FFD2,3     F6                 display offset register (MSB)



                                                 21
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II        SUPER HIGH RESOLUTION             ORIGIN: SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                GRAPHICS          REVISED:12/26/99 WALTER K ZYDHEK


      $FFD0,1        F5              display offset register
      $FFCE,F        F4              display offset register
      $FFCC,D        F3              display offset register
      $FFCA,B        F2              display offset register
      $FFC8,9        Fl              display offset register
      $FFC6,7        F0              display offset register (LSB)
      $FFC4,5        V2              display mode control register (MSB)
      $FFC2,3        V1              display mode control register
      $FFC0,1        V0              display mode control register (LSB)

                               Figure 8 - CoCo 3 SAM registers




                                                 22
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II        COLORS AND PALETTES             ORIGIN: SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                REVISED:12/26/99 WALTER K ZYDHEK


                                     COLORS AND PALETTES

      There are 64 color codes available on the Color Computer 3, numbered from 0-
63. By storing these values in the correct palette register (which well discuss in
a bit), these colors are displayed on the screen. There are two color sets used on
the Color Computer 3, one used for televisions and composite monitors, and the
other used for RGB monitors. These color sets are derived in different ways, and we
will discuss each of those separately.

                                 Colors on an RGB Monitor

      The term RGB is derived from the three-color signals sent to the monitor: one
each for red, green, and blue. These colors correspond to the three primary colors
that make up each pixel on the screen. The Color Computer produces a signal for
each of these three colors, which may be any one of four strengths, numbered from
0-3. When any one signal is 0, the corresponding dot is off; when the signal is 3,
it is on at full strength. A value of 1 or 2 would be one of the intermediate
strengths. By combining these colors and intensities, a wide range of colors can be
generated. The computer determines the strength of the red, green, and blue signals
by the number of the color selected.
      Each RGB color value uses two bits to determine the strength of each of the
red, green, and blue signals. This means that a total of six bits are used to
determine the value of a color (six bits, of course, allows 64 possibilities).
Figure 9 shows how each color is derived. Note that the bottom three bits of the
color value are used as the low order bits for each signal. The upper three bits
are used as the high order bits for each signal.

      Bits 6,7       Unused
      Bit 5          (R1)High Order Red
      Bit 4          (G1)High Order Green
      Bit 3          (B1)High Order Blue
      Bit 2          (R0)Low Order Red
      Bit 1          (G0)Low Order Green
      Bit 0          (B0)Low Order Blue

       Figure 9 - RGB Color Makeup

      For example, let’s make the color purple which is made with the following
color strengths: Blue = 3, Green = 1, Red = 2. Using the table above, this
translates to the following bit pattern: xx101011, or to a decimal value of 43.
Refer to appendix D for a complete color chart.

                   Colors on a Composite Monitor or Television

      Colors on a composite monitor are generated in the same way as colors on a
TV. They are, however, derived in a completely different way than RGB colors. The
colors are, again, specified using 6-bit. The bottom 4 bits determine the base
color, and the top 2 bits determine the intensity of the base color. Figure 10
shows the base colors.

      Bit Pattern           Base Color
        0000                Black/White



                                                23
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II         COLORS AND PALETTES             ORIGIN: SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                 REVISED:12/26/99 WALTER K ZYDHEK


        0001                Blue
        0010                Green
        0011                Cyan
        0100                Red
        0101                Magenta
        0110                Brown
        0111                Blue-Green
        1000                Sky-Blue
        1001                Peacock
        1010                Cyan-Green
        1011                Red-Magenta
        1100                Red-Orange
        1101                Orange
        1110                Yellow—Green
        1111                Blue-Purple

   Figure 10 - Composite Base Colors

      Composite intensity values range from 0-3, and occupy bits 4 and 5 of the
color value. For example, $04 sets the color dark red, $14 is red, $24 is medium
red, and $34 is bright red. See appendix D for a complete list of available colors.

                                            Palettes
      Colors in the original Color Computers were determined by storing a specific
pattern of bits (pixel) within the screen memory. This pixel corresponded to a
specific color. In the Color Computer 3, the pixel now corresponds to a “palette”,
or color register (see Figure 12). When it is time to display the screen, the
computer determines the palette number of a pixel, and then looks inside the
palette register to get the color to display. The palette registers are located
from $FFB0 - $FFBF and are read/write registers, but the top two bits must be
masked off after a read operation since only six bits contain valid data.
      This is a dramatic change and offers a flexibility that didn’t exist before.
First of all, the number of available colors as no longer limited to the resolution
of the screen. However, even more exciting is what happens when you change palette
registers. When a new value is stored in a palette register, say palette 1, all
pixels that correspond to palette 1 change colors. This allows you to change the
colors on large areas of the screen by simply changing one byte (or executing one
PALETTE command). The possibilities with this method of changing colors are
immense, including limited animation.
      Even though there are 16 palette registers, not all of the palette registers
may be active. For all 16 registers to be active, you must be in a 16-color hi-res
graphics mode. It you are in a hi-res four-color mode, only the first four palette
registers are active and if you are in a hi-res two-color mode, then only the first
two palette registers are active. Figure 11 shows the configuration of the pixels
in the byte.

      Graphic byte          16-color mode         4-color mode      2-color mode
        Bit 7               PA3, pixel 1          PA1, pixel 1      PA0, pixel 1
        Bit 6               PA2, pixel 1          PA0, pixel 1      PA0, pixel 2
        Bit 5               PA1, pixel 1          PA1, pixel 2      PA0, pixel 3
        Bit 4               PA0, pixel 1          PA0, pixel 2      PA0, pixel 4
        Bit 3               PA3, pixel 2          PA1, pixel 3      PA0, pixel 5



                                                 24
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II         COLORS AND PALETTES                ORIGIN: SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                    REVISED:12/26/99 WALTER K ZYDHEK


        Bit 2               PA2, pixel 2           PA0, pixel 3        PA0, pixel 6
        Bit 1               PA1, pixel 2           PA1, pixel 4        PA0, pixel 7
        Bit 0               PA0, pixel 2           PA0, pixel 4        PA0, pixel 8

                      Figure 11 Pixel/palette register configuration


      Palette        Pixel bit            Palette
      number         pattern         register address
        0             0000                $FFB0
        1             0001                $FFB1
        2             0O10                $FFB2
        3             0011                $FFB3
        4             0100                $FFB4
        5             0101                $FFB5
        6             0110                $FFB6
        7             0111                $FFB7
        8             1000                $FFB8
        9             1001                $FFB9
        10            1010                $FFBA
        11            1011                $FFBB
        12            1100                $FFBC
        13            1101                $FFBD
        14            1110                $FFBE
        15            1111                $FFBF

Figure 12 Pixel pattern/palette register relationship

      The palette registers are not affected by the COCO bit (bit 7, $FF90). Figure
13 shows the palette registers that are used in the different low and high-
resolution graphics and text modes.

      Graphics/Text Mode             Palette Registers Used      Palette Addresses

      32 x 16 Lo-res text
          Background                         13                        $FFBD
          Foreground                         12                        $FFBC

32/40/64/80 Column Hi-res text
          Background                         0-7                   $FFB0-$FFB7
          Foreground                         8-15                  $FFB8-$FFBF

       Lo-res graphics
         RG2, CSS=0                          8,9                   $FFB8-$FFB9
         RG2, CSS=1                         10,11                  $FFBA-$FFBB
         CG3, CSS=0                          0-3                   $FFB0-$FFB3
         CG3, CSS=1                          4-7                   $FFB4-$FFB7
         RG3, CSS=0                          8,9                   $FFB8-$FFB9
         RG3, CSS=1                         10,11                  $FFBA-$FFBB
         CG6, CSS=0                          0-3                   $FFB0-$FFB3
         CG6, CSS=1                          4-7                   $FFB4-$FFB7
         RG6, CSS=0                          8,9                   $FFB8-$FFB9



                                                  25
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II     COLORS AND PALETTES             ORIGIN: SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                             REVISED:12/26/99 WALTER K ZYDHEK


          RG6, CSS=1                    10,11                $FFBA-$FFBB

       Hi-res graphics
         16 COLOR                       0-15                 $FFB0-$FFBF
          4 COLOR                        0-3                 $FFB0-$FFB3
          2 COLOR                        0-1                 $FFB0-$FFB1

                        Figure 13 - Palettes used in graphics modes




                                               26
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II            INTERRUPTS             ORIGIN: SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                           REVISED:12/26/99 WALTER K ZYDHEK


                                          INTERRUPTS

      A new system of interrupts has been added with the advent of the Color
Computer 3. This section will discuss the two new interrupt sources (keyboard and
timer), enabling the interrupts, and processing individual interrupts. There will
be no discussion of the CoCo 2 PIA based interrupts.
      The new interrupt features are enabled by setting bits 4 (FIRQ) and 5 (IRQ)
of $FF90. If these bits are clear, interrupts are handled as they were in the
original Color Computer. Setting these bits allows you to use the new interrupt
system. The new system of interrupts is based entirely upon the GIME chip and makes
no use whatsoever of the PIA interrupt structure which was the basis of the old
(CoCo 2) system of interrupts.
      The IRQ Enable/Status Register and FIRQ Enable/Status Register are located at
$FF92 and $FF93 respectively. These registers are functionally identical, and are
defined according to Figure 14.

      Bit 7                          Undefined
      Bit 6                          Undefined
      Bit 5          TMR             Timer
      Bit 4          HBORD           Horizontal Border
      Bit 3          VBORD           Vertical Border
      Bit 2          EI2             Serial Data
      Bit 1          EI1             Keyboard
      Bit 0          EI0             Cartridge

Figure 14 - Interrupt Enable/Status Register

      To enable a specific interrupt, simply set the bit in the appropriate enable
register. For example, in order to enable the timer to trigger an IRQ interrupt,
simply store a $20 in $FF92. It is up to the interrupt servicing routine to
determine what caused the interrupt, which is done by reading the appropriate
status register. For example, if we have set up the interrupts to trigger an FIRQ
interrupt when a key is pressed, the service routine should contain the following
code to make sure the keyboard generated the interrupt:

      LDA $FF93      READ INTERRUPT STATUS REGISTER
      BITA #2        CHECK FOR KEYBOARD INTERRUPT
      BEQ ………        BRANCH IF NOT KEY

      In addition to determining the source of the interrupt, reading the status
register resets the interrupt flags (those same flags that told you where the
interrupt originated). The programmer must preserve the contents of the status
register if you wish to make use of their contents after the status register has
been read.
      The GIME chip interrupts are triggered on the high to low transition of the
interrupt source when the enable line is high. The design of the interrupt input
circuitry also causes an interrupt to occur if the interrupt source is high when
the enable line is brought low. This will cause a spurious interrupt, which your
interrupt handling routines must detect and reject. A current anomaly in the
interrupt circuitry causes the interrupt status register to be cleared when a zero
is written to the interrupt enable bit.




                                                27
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II            INTERRUPTS                ORIGIN: SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                              REVISED:12/26/99 WALTER K ZYDHEK


                                     The Keyboard Interrupt

      One of the exciting new interrupts included in the Color Computer 3 is the
keyboard interrupt. When set up properly, the user program can continue execution
without continually checking to see if a key is down. When a key is pressed, an
interrupt is generated. At this point, the interrupt servicing routine can
determine which key was pressed and process it.

      To set up the keyboard interrupt, several things must be done. First of all,
the interrupt enable/status registers must be turned on by setting the appropriate
bits in $FF90 (as discussed above). Then, the keyboard interrupt itself must be
enabled by setting bit 1 of the appropriate interrupt enable register. Lastly, the
keyboard strobe lines must be reset by storing a 0 at $FF02. Once this has been
done, pressing a key on the keyboard or pressing a joystick button will generate an
interrupt.

                                      The Timer Interrupt
      The timer is a 12-bit interval timer located at $FF94-$FF95. When a value is
loaded into the most significant byte ($FF94), the count is automatically started.
The input clock is set to either 14 MHz or horizontal sync, as selected by setting
or clearing bit 5 of $FF91. As the count falls through zero, an interrupt is
generated (if enabled), and the count is automatically reloaded. Setting bit 5 of
the appropriate interrupt enable register enables the timer interrupt.

                    The HBORD, VBORD, EI2, and EI0 Interrupts

      The other interrupts are similar to their counterparts in the Color Computer
2. HBORD causes an interrupt at the falling edge of the horizontal sync (the Color
Computer 2 actually generated this interrupt at the blanking pulse — a subtle
difference). The VBORD interrupt is generated at the falling edge of the vertical
sync. The EI2 interrupt is connected to the status line of the RS-232C serial
connector (printer port), and the EI0 interrupt is connected to the expansion (ROM
PAK) port.

                                           An Example

      Lastly, as an example, let’s set up the computer to generate an IRQ interrupt
when a key is pressed on the keyboard. The following assembly code would produce
this result:

      First enable the IRO interrupt
            LDA #$20    CODE TO ENABLE IRQ INTERRUPT
            STA $FF90   TURN ON INTERRUPT
      Now enable the Keyboard Interrupt at $FF92
            LDA #2      CODE TO ENABLE KEYBOARD INTERRUPT
            STA $FF92   ENABLE KEYBOARD IRQ
            CLR $FF02   CLEAR KEYBOARD STROBE LINES

      The service routine, of course, would read $FF92 and check to make sure the
keyboard interrupt was responsible for the interrupt.




                                               28
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II            INTERRUPTS                      ORIGIN: SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                    REVISED:12/26/99 WALTER K ZYDHEK


                                      Interrupt Vectors

      When an interrupt occurs, the computer must know where to go to process the
interrupt. To find this information, the computer looks into the $FF02 - $FFFF
range, which is defined as follows:

      Address        Interrupt       CoCo 2 Vector         CoCo 3 Vector
       $FFF2           SWI3             $100                  $FEEE
       $FFF4           SWI2             $103                  $FEF1
       $FFF6           FIRQ             $10F                  $FEF4
       $FEF8           IRQ              $10C                  $FEF7
       $FFFA           SWI              $106                  $FEFA
       $FFFC           NMI              $109                  $FEFD
       $FFFE          RESET             $A027                 $8C1B

                                 Figure 15 - Interrupt Vectors



      When an interrupt such as IRQ interrupt occurs, control is transferred to the
interrupt vector table ($FFF0-$FFFF) as shown in Figure 15. The GIME chip (and the
SAM chip in the older CoCos) redirect the CPU’s address request from the $FFF0-
$FFFF range to $BFF0-$BFFF so that the interrupt vectors can be stored in the Basic
ROM. In the original Color Computer, control would then be sent to $10C. At this
address was (and still is) a jump table which redirects control to the desired IRQ
routine. Since this jump table is in RAM, it may be modified by Extended Basic,
Disk Basic, or any user program.
      In the Color Computer 3, there is no guarantee that Basic or the Basic jump
table is in memory (because of the MMU). For this reason, an intermediate jump
table was made in RAM in the $FEEE range, which can be forced to be in the logical
address space at all times. This jump table, when Basic is running, contains LBRAs
to the appropriate address in Basic’s interrupt jump table ($100). This also means
that when a user program wants to replace the memory at $100 - $111, it should deal
with the interrupts at the intermediate jump table at $FEEE. For example, if a user
program wishes to replace the IRQ vector, the following code could be used:

      ORCC #$50             TURN OFF INTERRUPTS DURING CHANGE
      LDA   #$7E            OP CODE FOR JMP INSTRUCTION
      STA   $FEF7           REPLACE LBRA WITH JMP
      LDX   #SERVIC         POINT X TO SERVICE ROUTINE
      STX   $FEF8           PLACE ADDRESS AFTER JMP ADDRESS
      ANDCC #$AF            TURN INTERRUPTS BACK ON




                                                29
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II       SUPER EXTENDED BASIC             ORIGIN: SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                REVISED:12/26/99 WALTER K ZYDHEK


                                     SUPER EXTENDED BASIC

      Super Extended Basic has two major functions. First of all, it provides the
necessary machine code to initialize the computer and make Basic work therein.
Secondly, several new Commands have been added, primarily to make use of the
advanced graphics and memory capabilities. In the following pages, we will discuss
each of these functions

                                        Initialization

      In addition to the all RAM mode (where all memory in the computer is RAM),
there are 3 different ROM configurations (where some of the memory in the computer
is in ROM). ROM may be configured as one 32K block inside the computer ($8000-
$FDFF), 16K inside the computer ($8000-$BFFF) and 16K from the cartridge port
($C000-$FDFF), or 32K (except for the interrupt vectors) accessed through the
cartridge port.
      When the Color Computer 3 is turned on, the system is set up for 32K of ROM
inside the computer. After some preliminary initialization, a routine is copied
from the 32K ROM to $4000 in RAM and executed. This routine copies Extended Color
Basic, Super Extended Basic and Disk Basic (if available) into RAM. Once this is
done, the routine patches several of the routines in Basic to work in the Color
Computer 3. Unfortunately, the authors did not include patches that would fix any
of the inherent bugs in the old Basic. The main benefit of this complex system, as
far as the user is concerned, is that Basic is now located in RAM, and is easily
changed by pokes.

      The initialization routine for the Color Computer 3 begins at $8C1B. This
code writes over the DLOAD routine that was in the original Color Computer
(actually, typing DLOAD will simulate pressing the reset button). This initial-
ization routine is used for both a warm start (simply getting control of the
computer back from a runaway program) and a cold start (where the computer and
Basic have to be reinitialized). In the following paragraphs, we will discuss the
fundamental steps used to initialize the system.
      The body of the initialization routine is located in the 32K internal ROM at
$C000. Therefore, one of the first actions which the routine at $8C1B does is to
enable the 32K internal ROM and jump to $C000. The routine then does the following
steps. (in order).
      1) Clear the Screen. The screen is cleared by storing $12s in all of the
palette registers. Note that the memory where the screen is pointing is not
necessarily clear, just all of the differing values display identical colors.
      2) Set up MMU Registers. The routine initializes the MMU registers to values
it needs.
      3) Copy Initialization Routine. The routine that copies Basic into RAM and
patches the code is moved to $4000 in RAM. This insures that it will be there with
all configurations of ROM/RAM. Control is then transferred to this routine.
      4) Text Screen Display Set. The Video Registers are set up to display the
32x16 text screen.
      5) Initialize Registers. The Peripheral Interface Adapters (PIAs) and SAM
registers are initialized.
      6) F1 Key Check. The F1 key is polled, and a flag is set if the key is down
(this is used to force the alternate color set).




                                               30
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II        SUPER EXTENDED BASIC             ORIGIN: SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                 REVISED:12/26/99 WALTER K ZYDHEK


      7) ALT and CTRL Keys Checked. If the ALT and CTRL keys are both pressed,
control is transferred to another routine that displays a digitized picture of
Basic’s authors.
      8) Check the flag at $FFED (INT.FLAG). If this flag is not $55 (which would
indicate that it was set up before), control is transferred and a cold start is
forced.
      9) Check Reset Flag. Next the Reset Flag (RSTFLG, $71) is checked. If it is
not $55 (indicating that Basic has already been initialized), a cold start is
forced. Otherwise, the warm start routine is executed.

                                     The Warm Start Routine

      The warm start routine is used when the initialization routine has determined
that Basic is still intact. First, the address of the warm start routine is
retrieved from the Reset Vector (RSTVEC, $72). Next, the first byte at this address
is checked. If it is a NOP instruction, control is transferred to this warm start
address. Otherwise, a cold start is forced.

                                           Cold Start

      First, Basic, Extended Basic, Disk Basic (if there), and Super Extended Basic
are copied into RAM. Next, several patches are made in Basic, Extended Basic, and
Disk Basic (these patches are detailed in Appendix B, $C256). The intermediate jump
table for the interrupts is then moved to $FFEE (as well as the flag at $FFED
discussed earlier). If the flag indicating the alternate color set was chosen (i.e.
the F1 key was down), the color set is selected. Next the low-resolution text
screen is cleared to spaces. Lastly the palette registers are set to their default
values and control is transferred to the reset address in Basic (at $A027).

                                          New Commands

      Shortly after a prototype Color Computer 3 was created, Tandy contracted with
Microware in Des Moines, Iowa (the makers of OS-9) to upgrade Basic to work with
the new features of the computer. Microware decided that the best system to use
would be to patch Basic during the initialization of the computer. The result of
this is a somewhat complicated system of ROM and RAM switching.
      The Color Computer 3 added several new commands to Basic, including ON ERROR
and ON BREAK trapping, high-resolution text commands, and high-resolution graphics
commands. You can even print characters on a hi-res graphics screen!
      Most of the routines that make up the super high-resolution graphics commands
(HPAINT, HDRAW, HLINE, etc…) were derived from the related commands in Extended
Basic. Though mimicking these routines is not necessarily a bad philosophy, the
Extended Basic routines were never designed to handle 640 pixel wide screens.
Unfortunately, very little was done to increase the resolution of the routines. The
most obvious example of this is the HCIRCLE command, which has little more detail
on the super high-resolution screens than on the low-resolution screens.

                                        Inconsistencies

      In upgrading the graphics commands to work on the Color Computer 3 some of
the conventions used in Extended Basic were ignored. The most apparent example of
this is the HSCREEN command. Extended Basic requires that you set up the graphics



                                                31
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II    SUPER EXTENDED BASIC             ORIGIN: SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                             REVISED:12/26/99 WALTER K ZYDHEK


mode using the PMODE command, then (if you wish) clear the screen using the PCLS
command, and lastly display the screen with the SCREEN command. Super Extended
Basic has replaced all of these commands with one command, HSCREEN, which sets the
mode, clears the screen, and displays the screen. This does not allow you to view a
screen loaded in from disk or cassette, create the screen before viewing it (which
would be helpful with 32K screens), or switch between the text and graphics modes
without redrawing the graphics screen.
      The original programmers of Basic also went to great lengths to allow you to
draw the same picture on a higher resolution PMODE by simply changing the PMODE
command. All coordinates are 0-255 across and 0-191 vertically, no matter what
graphics mode you are using. Unfortunately, the new authors did not adhere to this
convention, and the coordinates for drawing on the super high-resolution screen
must change depending upon the HSCREEN resolution you are using.
      There are several key routines within Basic, which are described in the back
of the Basic User’s manual (ROM ROUTINES). Programmers have been encouraged to use
the indirect calls to these routines, as they are the only calls supported by
Tandy. One of these calls (CHROUT) prints a character to a device (0 = screen, -1 =
cassette, -2 = printer). The code for this device is located at $6F (DEVNUM). Basic
2.0 now also checks the byte at $E7 (HRWIDTH). If this byte is 0, text is printed
to the standard 32 x 16 text screen. Otherwise, text is printed to the hi-res text
(HRWIDTH) screen. This change is not documented in the Basic manual. Many CoCo 2
programs use the official CHROUT ROM call, but do not insure that HRWIDTH is zero.
This will cause Basic to attempt to write its message on the hi-res screen with
unpredictable results since using the hi-res screen is not supported by the CoCo 2.

                                     Inefficiencies

      Several aspects of Super Extended Basic are somewhat inefficient. It is,
unfortunately, clear that the people who wrote Super Extended Basic did not use
Color Basic regularly. The most glaring example is the omission of a routine that
would save a super high-resolution screen to disk or tape.
      When Basic version 1.2 was released, one of the changes was an alteration to
the Read Key routine. The result was that Basic ran faster (instead of individually
checking each key to see if it was down). Basic was changed to first check to see
if any key was down). Basic 2.0 changed this upgrade back to the original method.
There were probably intentions of making Basic work with the keyboard interrupt,
then the idea was scrapped and the patch accidentally left in.

                                       Ram Hooks

      Many of the Super Extended Basic command and functions have been provided
with a pseudo RAM hook. Since Basic is run in RAM in the CoCo 3, it doesn’t really
make sense to call them a “RAM hook” but it does make it easier to draw a parallel
to the RAM hooks used in the earlier versions of Basic. The RAM hooks come in the
form of a LBRN 0 instruction. This is a convenient way to allow the user to “patch”
or modify any of the routines, which have a RAM hook. Of course, it should be
obvious that ANY Basic routine may be easily patched in the normal manner if the
user desires to do so since Basic runs in RAM.




                                            32
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II   SUPER EXTENDED BASIC             ORIGIN: SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                            REVISED:12/26/99 WALTER K ZYDHEK


                                         Bugs

      There are several bugs within Super Extended Basic. Some are minor and
without too much consequence. Others, however, are potentially disastrous. Here are
a few of the more important ones.
      Any Basic program containing Disk Basic commands must be listed out with Disk
Basic installed. If you try to list the program without Disk Basic, the computer
will hang. For example, let’s look at the line 10 KILL “TEMP/DAT”. The program will
load into a system that does not have Disk Basic installed. The program will even
run and will return an ?SN ERROR IN LINE 10. However, when the line is LISTED, the
computer will hang (Basic gets confused when it can’t find the word KILL for the
Basic token in line 10).
      The Super Extended function tokens have been forced to start at $29. They
should be forced to start at $28. As a result, function token number $28 will never
be used. This is not a bug of earth shaking proportions, but one should be aware of
it.
      The ERLIN function will return a negative number if the line number in which
the error occurred is greater than 32767. This is caused by the fact that the ERLIN
function returns the line number as a two-byte integer instead of a floating point
number, as it should.
      Extended Basic graphics commands (LINE, CIRCLE, DRAW, etc.) don’t work well
with their Super Extended Basic counterparts (HLINE, HCIRCLE, HDRAW, etc). For
example, the command HLINE -(192,639),PSET:LINE -(0,0),PSET will cause problems
(often destroying the Basic program). This means you must be very careful to
include the H before the Super Extended graphic commands. These problems are caused
by the fact that Super Extended graphics routines such as HDRAW, HLINE, HCIRCLE
etc. use the same direct page variables as their lower resolution Extended Basic
counterparts. As a result, mixing up the two types of commands may cause problems.
      HDRAW does not work properly with relative motion in the negative direction
that is greater than 255. For example: HDRAW “BM-320”. The distance is not
calculated property due to an error in the negate routine.
      HPUT will not work with the NOT action. The command is supposed to reverse
the image in the HGET/HPUT buffer and place it on the screen. Because of the bug,
the command reverses the specified section of the screen and does nothing with the
image.
      The RGB and CMP commands function by copying an image of the palette
registers from RAM into the palette registers. As they now stand, these commands
will only copy 15 instead of 16 palette registers when invoked. Palette register 15
is not copied which generally will not cause problems but the user should be aware
of this flaw in the RGB and CMP commands.

      Listed below are the Spectral approved fixes for the easily fixable bugs
listed above.

To force HSCREEN to clear the hi-res screen:
      POKE &HE6C6,&H21

To fix the RGB and CMP commands:
      POKE &HE64C,16    -

To fix the HPUT “NOT” option:
      POKE &HEF13,&HC4



                                           33
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II        SUPER EXTENDED BASIC             ORIGIN: SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                 REVISED:12/26/99 WALTER K ZYDHEK




To fix the HDRAW bug:
      POKE &HF58D,&HBD               JSR $F4CC
      POKE &HF58E,&HF4
      POKE &HF58F,&HCC




                                                 34
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                             APPENDIX A                                           ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                               MEMORY MAP                              REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




     0001         C000        ROMPAK    EQU   $C000
     0002
     0003         0008        BS        EQU   8                BACKSPACE
     0004         000D        CR        EQU   $D               ENTER KEY
     0005         001B        ESC       EQU   $1B              ESCAPE CODE
     0006         000A        LF        EQU   $A               LINE FEED
     0007         000C        FORMF     EQU   $C               FORM FEED
     0008         0020        SPACE     EQU   $20              SPACE (BLANK)
     0009
     0010         003A        STKBUF    EQU   58               STACK BUFFER ROOM
     0011         045E        DEBDEL    EQU   $45E             DEBOUNCE DELAY
     0012         00FA        LBUFMX    EQU   250              MAX NUMBER OF CHARS IN A BASIC LINE
     0013         00FA        MAXLIN    EQU   $FA              MAXIMUM MS BYTE OF LINE NUMBER
     0014
     0015         2600        DOSBUF    EQU   $2600            RAM LOAD LOCATION FOR THE DOS COMMAND
     0016         0020        DIRLEN    EQU   32               NUMBER OF BYTES IN DIRECTORY ENTRY
     0017         0100        SECLEN    EQU   256              LENGTH OF SECTOR IN BYTES
     0018         0012        SECMAX    EQU   18               MAXIMUM NUMBER OF SECTORS PER TRACK
     0019         1200        TRKLEN    EQU   SECMAX*SECLEN    LENGTH OF TRACK IN BYTES
     0020         0023        TRKMAX    EQU   35               MAX NUMBER OF TRACKS
     0021         004A        FATLEN    EQU   6+(TRKMAX-1)*2   FILE ALLOCATION TABLE LENGTH
     0022         0044        GRANMX    EQU   (TRKMAX-1)*2     MAXIMUM NUMBER OF GRANULES
     0023         0119        FCBLEN    EQU   SECLEN+25        FILE CONTROL BLOCK LENGTH
     0024         0010        INPFIL    EQU   $10              INPUT FILE TYPE
     0025         0020        OUTFIL    EQU   $20              OUTPUT FILE TYPE
     0026         0040        RANFIL    EQU   $40              RANDOM/DIRECT FILE TYPE
     0027
     0028                     * PSEUDO PSEUDO OPS
     0029         0021        SKP1      EQU   $21              OP CODE OF BRN — SKIP ONE BYTE
     0030         008C        SKP2      EQU   $8C              OP CODE OF CMPX # - SKIP TWO BYTES
     0031         0086        SKP1LD    EQU   $86              OP CODE OF LDA # - SKIP THE NEXT BYTE
     0032                     *                                AND LOAD THE VALUE OF THAT BYTE INTO ACCA — THIS
     0033                     *                                IS USUALLY USED TO LOAD ACCA WITH A NON ZERO VALUE
     0034
     0035                     * SUPER EXTENDED BASIC EQUATES
     0036         0018        ROWMAX    EQU   24               MAXIMUM NUMBER OF ROWS IN HI-RES PRINT MODE
     0037         0000        RAMLINK   EQU   0                DUMMY RAM LINK VECTOR
     0038         2000        HRESSCRN EQU    $2000            ADDRESS OF THE HI-RES SCREEN IN THE CPU'S MEMORY SPACE
     0039         C000        HRESBUFF EQU    $C000            ADDRESS OF THE GET/PUT BUFFERS IN THE CPU'S MEMORY SPACE
     0040         DFFF        TMPSTACK EQU    $DFFF            ADDRESS OF THE HI-RES GRAPHICS STACK IN THE CPU'S MEMORY SPACE
     0041         0062        EBHITOK   EQU   $62              FIRST ENHANCED BASIC TOKEN NUMBER
     0042         0029        EBHISTOK EQU    $29              FIRST ENHANCED BASIC FUNCTION TOKEN NUMBER BUG - SHOULD BE $28
     0043         0020        CURCHAR   EQU   SPACE            HI-RES CURSOR CHARACTER
     0044
     0045                     * HBUFF HGET/HPUT BUFFER HEADER EQUATES
     0046         0000        HB.ADDR   EQU   0               ADDRESS OF THE NEXT BUFFER - 2 BYTES
     0047         0002        HB.NUM    EQU   2               NUMBER OF THIS BUFFER - 1 BYTES
     0048         0003        HB.SIZE   EQU   3               NUMBER OF BYTES IN THE BUFFER - 2 BYTES
     0049         0005        HB.LEN    EQU   5               NUMBER OF BYTES IN THIS HEADER
     0050
     0051                     * VIDEO REGISTER EQUATES
     0052                     * INIT0 BIT EQUATES
     0053         0080        COCO      EQU   $80              1 = Color Computer compatible
     0054         0040        MMUEN     EQU   $40              1 = MMU enabled
     0055         0020        IEN       EQU   $20              1 = GIME chip IRQ output enabled
     0056         0010        FEN       EQU   $10              1 = GIME chip FIRQ output enabled
     0057         0008        MC3       EQU   8                1 = RAM at XFEXX is constant
     0058         0004        MC2       EQU   4                1 = standard SCS
     0059         0002        MC1       EQU   2                ROM map control
     0060         0001        MC0       EQU   1                ROM map control
     0061
     0062                     * INTERRUPT REQUEST ENABLED
     0063         0020        TMR       EQU   $20              TIMER
     0064         0010        HBORD     EQU   $10              HORIZONTAL BORDER
     0065         0008        VBORD     EQU   8                VERTICAL BORDER
     0066         0004        EI2       EQU   4                SERIAL DATA
     0067         0002        EI1       EQU   2                KEYBOARD
     0068         0001        EI0       EQU   1                CARTRIDGE
     0069
     0070                     * EXPANDED MEMORY DEFINITIONS
     0071         0030        BLOCK 6.0 EQU   $30              BLOCKS $30-$33 ARE THE HI-RES GRAPHICS SCREEN
     0072         0031        BLOCK 6.1 EQU   $31              HI-RES GRAPHICS SCREEN
     0073         0032        BLOCK 6.2 EQU   $32              HI-RES GRAPHICS SCREEN
     0074         0033        BLOCK 6.3 EQU   $33              HI-RES GRAPHICS SCREEN




                                                                  A1
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                            APPENDIX A                                            ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                              MEMORY MAP                               REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




     0075          0034       BLOCK 6.4   EQU   $34           GET/PUT BUFFER
     0076          0035       BLOCK 6.5   EQU   $35           STACK AREA FOR HI-RES GRAPHICS COMMAND
     0077          0036       BLOCK 6.6   EQU   $36           CHARACTER POINTERS
     0078          0037       BLOCK 6.7   EQU   $37           UNUSED BY BASIC
     0079
     0080                     * BLOCKS $48-$4F ARE USED FOR THE BASIC OPERATING SYSTEM
     0081          0038       BLOCK7.0 EQU    $38
     0082          0039       BLOCK7.1 EQU    $39
     0083          003A       BLOCK7.2 EQU    $3A
     0084          003B       BLOCK7.3 EQU    $3B
     0085          003C       BLOCK7.4 EQU    $3C
     0086          003D       BLOCK7.5 EQU    $3D
     0087          003E       BLOCK7.6 EQU    $3E
     0088          003F       BLOCK7.7 EQU    $3F
     0089
     0090
     0091
     0092   0000                          ORG   0
     0093          0000                   SETDP 0
     0094
     0095   0000              ENDFLG    RMB   1               STOP/END FLAG: POSITIVE=STOP, NEG=END
     0096   0001              CHARAC    RMB   1               TERMINATOR FLAG 1
     0097   0002              ENDCUR    RMB   1               TERMINATOR FLAG 2
     0098   0003              TMPLOC    RMB   1               SCRATCH VARIABLE
     0099   0004              IFCTR     RMB   1               IF COUNTER - HOW MANY IF STATEMENTS IN A LINE
     0100   0005              DIMFLG    RMB   1               *DV* ARRAY FLAG 0=EVALUATE, 1=DIMENSIONING
     0101   0006              VALTYP    RMB   1               *DV* *PV TYPE FLAG: 0=NUMERIC, $FF=STRING
     0102   0007              GARBFL    RMB   1               *TV STRING SPACE HOUSEKEEPING FLAG
     0103   0008              ARYDIS    RMB   1               DISABLE ARRAY SEARCH: 00=ALLOW SEARCH
     0104   0009              INPFLG    RMB   1               *TV INPUT FLAG: READ=0, INPUT<>0
     0105   000A              RELFLG    RMB   1               *TV RELATIONAL OPERATOR FLAG
     0106   000B              TEMPPT    RMB   2               *PV TEMPORARY STRING STACK POINTER
     0107   000D              LASTPT    RMB   2               *PV ADDR OF LAST USED STRING STACK ADDRESS
     0108   000F              TEMPTR    RMB   2               TEMPORARY POINTER
     0109   0011              TMPTR1    RMB   2               TEMPORARY DESCRIPTOR STORAGE (STACK SEARCH)
     0110                     ** FLOATING POINT ACCUMULATOR #2 (MANTISSA ONLY)
     0111   0013              FPA2      RMB   4               FLOATING POINT ACCUMULATOR #2 MANTISSA
     0112   0017              BOTSTK    RMB   2               BOTTOM OF STACK AT LAST CHECK
     0113   0019              TXTTAB    RMB   2               *PV BEGINNING OF BASIC PROGRAM
     0114   001B              VARTAB    RMB   2               *PV START OF VARIABLES
     0115   001D              ARYTAB    RMB   2               *PV START OF ARRAYS
     0116   001F              ARYEND    RMB   2               *PV END OF ARRAYS (+1)
     0117   0021              FRETOP    RMB   2               *PV START OF STRING STORAGE (TOP OF FREE RAM)
     0118   0023              STRTAB    RMB   2               *PV START OF STRING VARIABLES
     0119   0025              FRESPC    RMB   2               UTILITY STRING POINTER
     0120   0027              MEMSIZ    RMB   2               *PV TOP OF STRING SPACE
     0121   0029              OLDTXT    RMB   2               SAVED LINE NUMBER DURING A "STOP"
     0122   002B              BINVAL    RMB   2               BINARY VALUE OF A CONVERTED LINE NUMBER
     0123   002D              OLDPTR    RMB   2               SAVED INPUT PTR DURING A "STOP"
     0124   002F              TINPTR    RMB   2               TEMPORARY INPUT POINTER STORAGE
     0125   0031              DATTXT    RMB   2               *PV 'DATA' STATEMENT LINE NUMBER POINTER
     0126   0033              DATPTR    RMB   2               *PV 'DATA' STATEMENT ADDRESS POINTER
     0127   0035              DATTMP    RMB   2               DATA POINTER FOR 'INPUT' & 'READ'
     0128   0037              VARNAM    RMB   2               *TV TEMP STORAGE FOR A VARIABLE NAME
     0129   0039              VARPTR    RMB   2               *TV POINTER TO A VARIABLE DESCRIPTOR
     0130   003B              VARDES    RMB   2               TEMP POINTER TO A VARIABLE DESCRIPTOR
     0131   003D              RELPTR    RMB   2               POINTER TO RELATIONAL OPERATOR PROCESSING ROUTINE
     0132   003F              TRELFL    RMB   1               TEMPORARY RELATIONAL OPERATOR FLAG BYTE
     0133
     0134                     * FLOATING POINT ACCUMULATORS #3,4 & 5 ARE MOSTLY
     0135                     * USED AS SCRATCH PAD VARIABLES.
     0136                     ** FLOATING POINT ACCUMULATOR #3 :PACKED: ($40-$44)
     0137   0040              V40       RMB   1
     0138   0041              V41       RMB   1
     0139   0042              V42       RMB   1
     0140   0043              V43       RMB   1
     0141   0044              V44       RMB   1
     0142                     ** FLOATING POINT ACCUMULATOR #4 :PACKED: ($45-$49)
     0143   0045              V45       RMB   1
     0144   0046              V46       RMB   1
     0145   0047              V47       RMB   1
     0146   0048              V48       RMB   2
     0147                     ** FLOATING POINT ACCUMULATOR #5 :PACKED: ($4A—$4E)
     0148   004A              V4A       RMB   1




                                                                  A2
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                             APPENDIX A                                           ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                               MEMORY MAP                              REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




     0149   004B              V4B       RMB   2
     0150   004D              V4D       RMB   2
     0151                     ** FLOATING POINT ACCUMULATOR #0
     0152   004F              FP0EXP    RMB   1                *PV FLOATING POINT ACCUMULATOR #0 EXPONENT
     0153   0050              FPA0      RMB   4                *PV FLOATING POINT ACCUMULATOR #0 MANTISSA
     0154   0054              FP0SGN    RMB   1                *PV FLOATING POINT ACCUMULATOR #0 SIGN
     0155   0055              COEFCT    RMB   1                POLYNOMIAL COEFFICIENT COUNTER
     0156   0056              STRDES    RMB   5                TEMPORARY STRING DESCRIPTOR
     0157   005B              FPCARY    RMB   1                FLOATING POINT CARRY BYTE
     0158                     ** FLOATING POINT ACCUMULATOR #1
     0159   005C              FP1EXP    RMB   1                *PV FLOATING POINT ACCUMULATOR #1 EXPONENT
     0160   005D              FPA1      RMB   4                *PV FLOATING POINT ACCUMULATOR #1 MANTISSA
     0161   0061              FP1SGN    RMB   1                *PV FLOATING POINT ACCUMULATOR #1 SIGN
     0162
     0163   0062              RESSGN    RMB   1               SIGN OF RESULT OF FLOATING POINT OPERATION
     0164   0063              FPSBYT    RMB   1               FLOATING POINT SUB BYTE (FIFTH BYTE)
     0165   0064              COEFPT    RMB   2               POLYNOMIAL COEFFICIENT POINTER
     0166   0066              LSTTXT    RMB   2               CURRENT LINE POINTER DURING LIST
     0167   0068              CURLIN    RMB   2               *PV CURRENT LINE # OF BASIC PROGRAM, $FFFF = DIRECT
     0168   006A              DEVCFW    RMB   1               *TV TAB FIELD WIDTH
     0169   006B              DEVLCF    RMB   1               *TV TAB ZONE
     0170   006C              DEVPOS    RMB   1               *TV PRINT POSITION
     0171   006D              DEVWID    RMB   1               *TV PRINT WIDTH
     0172   006E              PRTDEV    RMB   1               *TV PRINT DEVICE: 0=NOT CASSETTE, -1=CASSETTE
     0173   006F              DEVNUM    RMB   1               *PV DEVICE NUMBER: -3=DLOAD, -2=PRINTER,
     0174                     *                                                  -1=CASSETTE, 0=SCREEN, 1-15=DISK
     0175   0070              CINBFL    RMB   1               *PV CONSOLE IN BUFFER FLAG: 00=NOT EMPTY, $FF=EMPTY
     0176   0071              RSTFLG    RMB   1               *PV WARM START FLAG: $55=WARM, OTHER=COLD
     0177   0072              RSTVEC    RMB   2               *PV WARM START VECTOR - JUMP ADDRESS FOR WARM START
     0178   0074              TOPRAM    RMB   2               *PV TOP OF RAM
     0179   0076                        RMB   2               SPARE: UNUSED VARIABLES
     0180   0078              FILSTA    RMB   1               *PV FILE STATUS FLAG: 0=CLOSED, 1=INPUT, 2=OUTPUT
     0181   0079              CINCTR    RMB   1               *PV CONSOLE IN BUFFER CHAR COUNTER
     0182   007A              CINPTR    RMB   2               *PV CONSOLE IN BUFFER POINTER
     0183   007C              BLKTYP    RMB   1               *TV CASS BLOCK TYPE: 0=HEADER, 1=DATA, $FF=EOF
     0184   007D              BLKLEN    RMB   1               *TV CASSETTE BYTE COUNT
     0185   007E              CBUFAD    RMB   2               *TV CASSETTE LOAD BUFFER POINTER
     0186   0080              CCKSUM    RMB   1               *TV CASSETTE CHECKSUM BYTE
     0187   0081              CSRERR    RMB   1               *TV ERROR FLAG/CHARACTER COUNT
     0188   0082              CPULWD    RMB   1               *TV PULSE WIDTH COUNT
     0189   0083              CPERTM    RMB   1               *TV BIT COUNTER
     0190   0084              CBTPHA    RMB   1               *TV BIT PHASE FLAG
     0191   0085              CLSTSN    RMB   1               *TV LAST SINE TABLE ENTRY
     0192   0086              GRBLOK    RMB   1               *TV GRAPHIC BLOCK VALUE FOR SET, RESET AND POINT
     0193   0087              IKEYIM    RMB   1               *TV INKEY$ RAM IMAGE
     0194   0088              CURPOS    RMB   2               *PV CURSOR LOCATION
     0195   008A              ZERO      RMB   2               *PV DUMMY - THESE TWO BYTES ARE ALWAYS ZERO
     0196   008C              SNDTON    RMB   1               *TV TONE VALUE FOR SOUND COMMAND
     0197   008D              SNDDUR    RMB   2               *TV DURATION VALUE FOR SOUND COMMAND
     0198
     0199                     ** THESE BYTES ARE MOVED DOWN FROM ROM
     0200                     ***                             INIT   DESCRIPTION
     0201                     *                               VALUE
     0202   008F              CMPMID    RMB   1               18     *PV 1200/2400 HERTZ PARTITION
     0203   0090              CMP0      RMB   1               24     *PV UPPER LIMIT OF 1200 HERTZ PERIOD
     0204   0091              CMP1      RMB   1               10     *PV UPPER LIMIT OF 2400 HERTZ PERIOD
     0205   0092              SYNCLN    RMB   2               128    *PV NUMBER OF $55'S TO CASSETTE LEADER
     0206   0094              BLKCNT    RMB   1               11     *PV CURSOR BLINK DELAY
     0207   0095              LPTBTD    RMB   2               88     *PV BAUD RATE CONSTANT (600)
     0208   0097              LPTLND    RMB   2               1      *PV PRINTER CARRIAGE RETURN DELAY
     0209   0099              LPTCFW    RMB   1               16     *PV TAB FIELD WIDTH
     0210   009A              LPTLCF    RMB   1               112    *PV LAST TAB ZONE
     0211   009B              LPTWID    RMB   1               132    *PV PRINTER WIDTH
     0212   009C              LPTPOS    RMB   1               0      *PV LINE PRINTER POSITION
     0213   009D              EXECJP    RMB   2               LB4AA *PV JUMP ADDRESS FOR EXEC COMMAND
     0214
     0215                     ** THIS ROUTINE PICKS UP THE NEXT INPUT CHARACTER FROM
     0216                     ** BASIC. THE ADDRESS OF THE NEXT BASIC BYTE TO BE
     0217                     ** INTERPRETED IS STORED AT CHARAD.
     0218
     0219   009F   0C A7      GETNCH    INC   <CHARAD+1       *PV INCREMENT LS BYTE OF INPUT POINTER
     0220   00A1   26 02                BNE   GETCCH          *PV BRANCH IF NOT ZERO (NO CARRY)
     0221   00A3   0C A6                INC   <CHARAD         *PV INCREMENT MS BYTE OF INPUT POINTER
     0222   00A5   B6         GETCCH    FCB   $B6             *PV OP CODE OF LDA EXTENDED




                                                                  A3
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                            APPENDIX A                                           ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                              MEMORY MAP                              REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




     0223   00A6              CHARAD          2               *PV THESE 2 BYTES CONTAIN ADDRESS OF THE CURRENT
     0224                     *                                   CHARACTER WHICH THE BASIC INTERPRETER IS
     0225                     *                                   PROCESSING
     0226   00A8 7E AA 1A               JMP   BROMHK          JUMP BACK INTO THE BASIC RUM
     0227
     0228   00AB              VAB       RMB   1               = LOW ORDER FOUR BYTES OF THE PRODUCT
     0229   00AC              VAC       RMB   1               = OF A FLOATING POINT MULTIPLICATION
     0230   00AD              VAD       RMB   1               = THESE BYTES ARE USE AS RANDOM DATA
     0231   00AE              VAE       RMB   1               = BY THE RND STATEMENT
     0232
     0233                     * EXTENDED BASIC VARIABLES
     0234   00AF              TRCFLG    RMB   1               *PV TRACE FLAG 0=OFF ELSE=ON
     0235   00B0              USRADR    RMB   2               *PV ADDRESS OF THE START OF USR VECTORS
     0236   00B2              FORCOL    RMB   1               *PV FOREGROUND COLOR
     0237   00B3              BAKCOL    RMB   1               *PV BACKGROUND COLOR
     0238   00B4              WCOLOR    RMB   1               *TV WORKING COLOR BEING USED BY EX BASIC
     0239   00B5              ALLCOL    RMB   1               *TV ALL PIXELS IN THIS BYTE SET TO COLOR OF VB3
     0240   00B6              PMODE     RMB   1               *PV PMODE'S MODE ARGUMENT
     0241   00B7              ENDGRP    RMB   2               *PV END OF CURRENT GRAPHIC PAGE
     0242   00B9              HORBYT    RMB   1               *PV NUMBER OF BYTES/HORIZONTAL GRAPHIC LINE
     0243   00BA              BEGGRP    RMB   2               *PV START OF CURRENT GRAPHIC PAGE
     0244   00BC              GRPRAM    RMB   1               *PV START OF GRAPHIC RAM (MS BYTE)
     0245   00BD              HORBEG    RMB   2               *DV* *PV HORIZ COORD - START POINT
     0246   00BF              VERBEG    RMB   2               *DV* *PV VERT COORD - START POINT
     0247   00C1              CSSYAL    RMB   1               *PV SCREEN'S COLOR SET ARGUMENT
     0248   00C2              SETFLG    RMB   1               *PV PRESET/PSET FLAG: 0=PRESET, 1=PSET
     0249   00C3              HOREND    RMB   2               *DV* *PV HORIZ COORD - ENDING POINT
     0250   00C5              VEREND    RMB   2               *DV* *PV VERT COORD - ENDING POINT
     0251   00C7              HORDEF    RMB   2               *PV HORIZ COORD - DEFAULT COORD
     0252   00C9              VERDEF    RMB   2               *PV VERT COORD - DEFAULT COORD
     0253
     0254                     * EXTENDED BASIC SCRATCH PAD VARIABLES
     0255   00CB              VCB       RMB   2
     0256   00CD              VCD       RMB   2
     0257   00CF              VCF       RMB   2
     0258   00D1              VD1       RMB   2
     0259   00D3              VD3       RMB   1
     0260   00D4              VD4       RMB   1
     0261   00D5              VD5       RMB   1
     0262   00D6              VD6       RMB   1
     0263   00D7              VD7       RMB   1
     0264   00D8              VD8       RMB   1
     0265   00D9              VD9       RMB   1
     0266   00DA              VDA       RMB   1
     0267
     0268   00DB              CHGFLG    RMB   1               *TV FLAG TO INDICATE IF GRAPHIC DATA HAS BEEN CHANGED
     0269   00DC              TMPSTK    RMB   2               *TV STACK POINTER STORAGE DURING PAINT
     0270   00DE              OCTAVE    RMB   1               *PV OCTAVE VALUE (PLAY)
     0271   00DF              VOLHI     RMB   1               *DV* *PV VOLUME HIGH VALUE (PLAY)
     0272   00E0              VOLLOW    RMB   1               *DV* *PV VOLUME LOW VALUE (PLAY)
     0273   00E1              NOTELN    RMB   1               *PV NOTE LENGTH (PLAY)
     0274   00E2              TEMPO     RMB   1               *PV TEMPO VALUE (PLAY)
     0275   00E3              PLYTMR    RMB   2               *TV TIMER FOR THE PLAY COMMAND
     0276   00E5              DOTYAL    RMB   1               *TV DOTTED NOTE TIMER SCALE FACTOR
     0277   00E6              HRMODE    EQU   *               SUPER EXTENDED BASIC HI-RES MODE
     0278   00E6              DLBAUD    RMB   1               *DV* *PV DLOAD BAUD RATE CONSTANT $B0=300, $2C=1200
     0279   00E7              HRWIDTH   EQU   *               SUPER EXTENDED BASIC HI-RES TEXT MODE
     0280   00E7              TIMOUT    RMB   1               *DV* *PV DLOAD TIMEOUT CONSTANT
     0281   00E8              ANGLE     RMB   1               *DV* *PV ANGLE VALUE (DRAW)
     0282   00E9              SCALE     RMB   1               *DV* *PV SCALE VALUE (DRAW)
     0283
     0284                     * DSKCON VARIABLES
     0285   00EA              DCOPC     RMB   1               *PV DSKCON OPERATION CODE 0-3
     0286   00EB              DCDRV     RMB   1               *PV DSKCON DRIVE NUMBER 0—3
     0287   00EC              DCTRK     RMB   1               *PV DSKCON TRACK NUMBER 0—34
     0288   00ED              DSEC      RMB   1               *PV DSKCON SECTOR NUMBER 1-18
     0289   00EE              DCBPT     RMB   2               *PV DSKCON DATA POINTER
     0290   00F0              DCSTA     RMB   1               *PV DSKCON STATUS BYTE
     0291
     0292   00F1              FCBTMP    RMB   2               TEMPORARY FCB POINTER
     0293
     0294   00F3                        RMB   13              SPARE: UNUSED VARIABLES
     0295
     0296




                                                                  A4
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                              APPENDIX A                                         ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                MEMORY MAP                            REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




     0297                     *                                 BASIC   EXBASICDOSBASIC
     0298
     0299   0100              SW3VEC    RMB    3                $XXXX   $XXXX   $3B3B   SWI3 VECTOR
     0300   0103              SW2VEC    RMB    3                $XXXX   $XXXX   $3B3B   SWI2 VECTOR
     0301   0106              SWIVEC    RMB    3                $XXXX   $XXXX   $XXXX   SWI VECTOR
     0302   0109              NMIVEC    RMB    3                $XXXX   $XXXX   $D7AE   NMI VECTOR
     0303   010C              IRQVEC    RMB    3                $A9B3   $894C   $D7BC   IRQ VECTOR
     0304   010F              FRQVEC    RMB    3                $A0F6   $A0F6   $A0F6   FIRQ VECTOR
     0305
     0306   0112              TIMVAL
     0307   0112              USRJMP    RMB    3                JUMP ADDRESS FOR BASIC'S USR FUNCTION
     0308                     *         RMB    2                TIMER VALUE FOR EXBAS
     0309                     *         RMB    1                UNUSED BY EXBAS OR DISK BASIC
     0310   0115              RVSEED    RMB    1                * FLOATING POINT RANDOM NUMBER SEED EXPONENT
     0311   0116                        RMB    4                * MANTISSA: INITIALLY SET TO $804FC75259
     0312   011A              CASFLG    RMB    1                UPPER CASE/LOWER CASE FLAG: $FF=UPPER, 0=LOWER
     0313   011B              DEBVAL    RMB    2                KEYBOARD DEBOUNCE DELAY (SET TO $45E)
     0314   011D              EXPJMP    RMB    3                JUMP ADDRESS FOR EXPONENTIATION
     0315                     **                                INITIALLY SET TO ERROR FOR BASIC, $8489 FOR EX BASIC
     0316
     0317                     ***       COMMAND INTERPRETATION VECTOR TABLE
     0318
     0319                     ** FOUR SETS OF 10 BYTE TABLES:
     0320
     0321
     0322                     ** THE LAST USED TABLE MUST BE FOLLOWED BY A ZERO BYTE
     0323                     * THE JUMP TABLE VECTORS (3,4 AND 8,9) POINT TO THE JUMP TABLE FOR
     0324                     * THE FIRST TABLE. FOR ALL OTHER TABLES, THESE VECTORS POINT TO A
     0325                     * ROUTINE WHICH WILL VECTOR YOU TO THE CORRECT JUMP TABLE.
     0326                     * SUPER ENHANCED BASIC HAS MODIFIED THIS SCHEME SO THAT THE USER
     0327                     * TABLE MAY NOT BE ACCESSED. ANY ADDITIONAL TABLES WILL HAVE TO BE
     0328                     * ACCESSED FROM A NEW COMMAND HANDLER.
     0329
     0330                     *         BYTE   DESCRIPTION
     0331                     *         0      NUMBER OF RESERVED WORDS
     0332                     *         1,2    LOOKUP TABLE OF RESERVED WORDS
     0333                     *         3,4    JUMP TABLE FOR COMMANDS (FIRST TABLE)
     0334                     *                VECTOR TO EXPANSION COMMAND HANDLERS (ALL BUT FIRST TABLE)
     0335                     *         5      NUMBER OF SECONDARY FUNCTIONS
     0336                     *         6,7    LOOKUP TABLE OF SECONDARY FUNCTIONS (FIRST TABLE)
     0337                     *                VECTOR TO EXPANSION SECONDARY COMMAND HANDLERS (ALL BUT
     0338                     *                FIRST TABLE)
     0339                     *         8,9    JUMP TABLE FOR SECONDARY FUNCTIONS
     0340                     *         10     0 BYTE - END OF TABLE FLAG (LAST TABLE ONLY)
     0341
     0342   0120              COMVEC    RMB    10               BASIC'S TABLE
     0343   012A                        RMB    10               EX BASIC'S TABLE
     0344   0134                        RMB    10               DISC BASIC'S TABLE (UNUSED BY EX BASIC)
     0345
     0346                     **** USR FUNCTION VECTOR ADDRESSES (EX BASIC ONLY)
     0347   013E                        RMB   2               USR 0 VECTOR
     0348   0140                        RMB   2               USR 1
     0349   0142                        RMB   2               USR 2
     0350   0144                        RMB   2               USR 3
     0351   0146                        RMB   2               USR 4
     0352   0148                        RMB   2               USR 5
     0353   014A                        RMB   2               USR 6
     0354   014C                        RMB   2               USR 7
     0355   014E                        RMB   2               USR 8
     0356   0150                        RMB   2               USR 9
     0357
     0358                     *** THE ABOVE 20 BYTE USR ADDR VECTOR TABLE IS MOVED TO
     0359                     *** $95F-$972 BY DISC BASIC. THE 20 BYTES FROM $13E-$151
     0360                     *** ARE REDEFINED AS FOLLOWS:
     0361
     0362                     *         RMB    10               USER (SPARE) COMMAND INTERPRETATION TABLE SPACE
     0363                     *         FCB    0                END OF COMM INTERP TABLE FLAG
     0364                     *         RMB    9                UNUSED BY DISK BASIC
     0365
     0366                     *         COMMAND INTERPRETATION TABLE VALUES
     0367                     *               BYTE            BASIC EX BASICDISK BASIC
     0368                     *               0               53          BASIC TABLE
                                                                                   BASIC TABLE
     0369                     *               1,2             $AA66
     0370                     *               3,4             $AB67




                                                                   A5
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                            APPENDIX A                                               ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                              MEMORY MAP                                  REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




     0371                     *               5               20
     0372                     *               6,7             $AB1A
     0373                     *               8,9             $AA29
     0374
     0375                     *               0                        25              EX BASIC TABLE
     0376                     *               1,2                      $8183
     0377                     *               3,4                      $813C   $CE2E   ($CF0A 2.1)
     0378                     *               5                        14
     0379                     *               6,7                      $821E
     0380                     *               8,9                      $8168   $CE56   ($CF32 2.1)
     0381
     0382                     *               0                        19 (20 2.1)     DISK BASIC TABLE
     0383                     *               1,2                      $C17F
     0384                     *               3,4                      $C2C0
     0385                     *               5                        6
     0386                     *               6,7                      $C201
     0387                     *               8,9                      $C236
     0388
     0389
     0390   0152              KEYBUF    RMB   8               KEYBOARD MEMORY BUFFER
     0391   015A              POTVAL    RMB   1               LEFT VERTICAL JOYSTICK DATA
     0392   015B                        RMB   1               LEFT HORIZONTAL JOYSTICK DATA
     0393   015C                        RMB   1               RIGHT VERTICAL JOYSTICK DATA
     0394   015D                        RMB   1               RIGHT HORIZONTAL JOYSTICK DATA
     0395
     0396                     * BASIC'S RAM VECTORS - INITIALIZED TO RTS BY COLOR BASIC
     0397                     * 25 SETS OF 3 BYTE INSTRUCTIONS WHICH ARE CALLED BY COLOR BASIC
     0398                     * EXTENDED AND DISK BASIC. THEIR PURPOSE IS TO ALLOW ENHANCEMENTS (SUCH
     0399                     * AS EX BASIC AND DOS BASIC) AS MORE ROMS ARE ADDED TO THE
     0400                     * SYSTEM BY EFFECTIVELY ALLOWING MORE CODE TO BE ADDED TO THE
     0401                     * ROUTINES IN EARLIER ROMS. THIS NEW CODE IS LOCATED IN THE NEW ROMS
     0402                     * AND THE ADDRESS TO GET TO THE NEW CODE IS IN BYTES 1 & 2 OF THE
     0403                     * RAM VECTOR. BYTE 0 WILL CONTAIN A $7E WHICH IS THE FIRST BYTE OF
     0404                     * THE JMP INSTRUCTION.
     0405                     * THE FIRST ADDRESS IN THIS TABLE IS THE ADDRESS IN BASIC WHICH
     0406                     * CALLS THE RAM VECTOR, THE SECOND ADDRESS IS THE VALUE WHICH
     0407                     * EX BASIC PUTS IN THE RAM VECTOR (IF ANY) AND THE THIRD ADDRESS
     0408                     * IS THE VALUE WHICH DISK BASIC PUTS THERE (IF ANY)
     0409
     0410
     0411                     *                               2.0      2.1     1.0     1.1
     0412   015E              RVEC0     RMB   3               $A5F6            $C426   $C44B   OPEN COMMAND
     0413   0161              RVEC1     RMB   3               $A5B9            $C838   $C888   DEVICE NUMBER VALIDITY CHECK
     0414   0164              RVEC2     RMB   3               $A35F            $C843   $C893   SET PRINT PARAMETERS
     0415   0167              RVEC3     RMB   3               $A282    $8273   $CB4A   $CC1C   CONSOLE OUT
     0416   016A              RVEC4     RMB   3               $A176    $8CF1   $C58F   $C5BC   CONSOLE IN
     0417   016D              RVEC5     RMB   3               $A3ED            $C818   $C848   INPUT DEVICE NUMBER CHECK
     0418   0170              RVEC6     RMB   3               $A406            $C81B   $C84B   PRINT DEVICE NUMBER CHECK
     0419   0173              RVEC7     RMB   3               $A426            $CA3B   $CAE9   CLOSE ALL FILES
     0420   0176              RVEC8     RMB   3               $A42D    $8286   $CA4B   $CAF9   CLOSE ONE FILE
     0421   0179              RVEC9     RMB   3               $B918    $8E90   $8E90   $8E90   PRINT
     0422   017C              RVEC10    RMB   3               $B061            $CC5B   $CD35   INPUT
     0423   017F              RVEC11    RMB   3               $A549            $C859   $C8A9   BREAK CHECK
     0424   0182              RVEC12    RMB   3               $A390            $C6B7   $C6E4   INPUTTING A BASIC LINE
     0425   0185              RVEC13    RMB   3               $A4BF            $CA36   $CAE4   TERMINATING BASIC LINE INPUT
     0426   0188              RVEC14    RMB   3               $A5CE            $CA60   $C90C   EOF COMMAND
     0427   018B              RVEC15    RMB   3               $B223    $8846   $CDF6   $CED2   EVALUATE AN EXPRESSION
     0428   018E              RVEC16    RMB   3               $AC46            $C6B7   $C6E4   RESERVED FOR ON ERROR GOTO COMMAND
     0429   0191              RVEC17    RMB   3               $AC49    $88F0   $C24D   $C265   ERROR DRIVER
     0430   0194              RVEC18    RMB   3               $AE75    $829C   $C990   $CA3E   RUN
     0431   0197              RVEC19    RMB   3               $BD22    $87EF                   ASCII TO FLOATING POINT CONVERSION
     0432   019A              RVEC20    RMB   3               $AD9E    $82B9           $C8B0   BASIC'S COMMAND INTERPRETATION LOOP
     0433   019D              RVEC21    RMB   3               $A8C4                            RESET/SET/POINT COMMANDS
     0434   01A0              RVEC22    RMB   3               $A910                            CLS
     0435                     *                               $8162                            EXBAS' SECONDARY TOKEN HANDLER
     0436                     *                               $8AFA                            EXBAS' RENUM TOKEN CHECK
     0437                     *                               $975C            $C29A   $C2B2   EXBAS' GET/PUT
     0438   01A3              RVEC23    RMB   3               $B821    $8304                   CRUNCH BASIC LINE
     0439   01A6              RVEC24    RMB   3               $B7C2                            UNCRUNCH BASIC LINE
     0440
     0441   01A9              STRSTK    RMB   8*5             STRING DESCRIPTOR STACK
     0442   01D1              CFNBUF    RMB   9               CASSETTE FILE NAME BUFFER
     0443   01DA              CASBUF    RMB   256             CASSETTE FILE DATA BUFFER
     0444   02DA              LINHDR    RMB   2               LINE INPUT BUFFER HEADER




                                                                  A6
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                               APPENDIX A                                         ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                 MEMORY MAP                            REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




     0445   02DC              LINBUF    RMB    LBUFMX+1          BASIC LINE INPUT BUFFER
     0446   03D7              STRBUF    RMB    41                STRING BUFFER
     0447
     0448   0400              VIDRAM    RMB    200               VIDEO DISPLAY AREA
     0449
     0450                     *START OF ADDITIONAL RAM VARIABLE STORAGE (DISK BASIC ONLY)
     0451   0600              DBUF0     RMB   SECLEN          I/O BUFFER #0
     0452   0700              DBUF1     RMB   SECLEN          I/O BUFFER #1
     0453   0800              FATBL0    RMB   FATLEN          FILE ALLOCATION TABLE - DRIVE 0
     0454   084A              FATBL1    RMB   FATLEN          FILE ALLOCATION TABLE - DRIVE 1
     0455   0894              FATBL2    RMB   FATLEN          FILE ALLOCATION TABLE - DRIVE 2
     0456   08DE              FATBL3    RMB   FATLEN          FILE ALLOCATION TABLE - DRIVE 3
     0457   0928              FCBV1     RMB   16*2            FILE BUFFER VECTORS (15 USER, 1 SYSTEM)
     0458   0948              RNBFAD    RMB   2               START OF FREE RANDOM FILE BUFFER AREA
     0459   094A              FCBADR    RMB   2               START OF FILE CONTROL BLOCKS
     0460   094C              DNAMBF    RMB   8               DISK FILE NAME BUFFER
     0461   0954              DEXTBF    RMB   3               DISK FILE EXTENSION NAME BUFFER
     0462   0957              DFLTYP    RMB   1               *DV* DISK FILE TYPE: 0=BASIC, 1=DATA, 2=MACHINE
     0463                     *                                    LANGUAGE, 3=TEXT EDITOR SOURCE FILE
     0464   0958              DASCFL    RMB   1               *DV* ASCII FLAG: 0=CRUNCHED OR BINARY, $FF=ASCII
     0465   0959              DRUNFL    RMB   1               RUN FLAG: (IF BIT 1=1 THEN RUN, IF BIT 0=1, THEN CLOSE
     0466                     *                               ALL FILES BEFORE RUNNING)
     0467   095A              DEFDRV    RMB   1               DEFAULT DRIVE NUMBER
     0468   095B              FCBACT    RMB   1               NUMBER OF FCBS ACTIVE
     0469   095C              DRESFL    RMB   1               RESET FLAG: <>0 WILL CAUSE A 'NEW' & SHUT DOWN ALL FCBS
     0470   095D              DLOADFL   RMB   1               LOAD FLAG: CAUSE A 'NEW' FOLLOWING A LOAD ERROR
     0471   095E              DMRGFL    RMB   1               MERGE FLAG: 0=N0 MERGE, $FF=MERGE
     0472   095F              DUSRVC    RMB   20              DISK BASIC USR COMMAND VECTORS
     0473                     *** DISK FILE WORK AREA FOR DIRECTORY SEARCH
     0474                     *   EXISTING FILE
     0475   0973              V973      RMB   1               SECTOR NUMBER
     0476   0974              V974      RMB   2               RAM DIRECTORY IMAGE ADDRESS
     0477   0976              V976      RMB   1               FIRST GRANULE NUMBER
     0478                     *   UNUSED FILE
     0479   0977              V977      RMB   1               SECTOR NUMBER
     0480   0978              V978      RMB   2               RAM DIRECTORY IMAGE ADDRESS
     0481
     0482   097A              WFATVL    RMB    2                 WRITE FAT VALUE: NUMBER OF FREE GRANULES WHICH MUST BE TAKEN
     0483                                                        FROM THE FAT TO TRIGGER A WRITE FAT TO DISK SEQUENCE
     0484   097C              DFFLEN    RMB    2                 DIRECT ACCESS FILE RECORD LENGTH
     0485   097E              DR0TRK    RMB    4                 CURRENT TRACK NUMBER, DRIVES 0,1,2,3
     0486   0982              NMIFLG    RMB    1                 NMI FLAG: 0=DON'T VECTOR <>0=YECTOR OUT
     0487   0983              DNMIVC    RMB    2                 NMI VECTOR: WHERE TO JUMP FOLLOWING AN NMI
     0488                     *                                  INTERRUPT IF THE NMI FLAG IS SET
     0489   0985              RDYTMR    RMB    1                 MOTOR TURN OFF TIMER
     0490   0986              DRGRAM    RMB    1                 RAM IMAGE OF DSKREG ($FF40)
     0491   0987              DVERFL    RMB    1                 VERIFY FLAG: 0=OFF, $FF=ON
     0492   0988              ATTCTR    RMB    1                 READ/WRITE ATTEMPT COUNTER: NUMBER OF TIMES THE
     0493                     *                                  DISK WILL ATTEMPT TO RETRIEVE OR WRITE DATA
     0494                     *                                  BEFORE IT GIVES UP AND ISSUES AN ERROR.
     0495
     0496   0989              DFLBUF    RMB    SECLEN            INITIALIZED TO SECLEN BY DISKBAS
     0497
     0498                     *RANDOM FILE RESERVED AREA
     0499
     0500                     *FILE CONTROL BLOCKS AND BUFFERS
     0501
     0502                     *GRAPHIC PAGE RESERVED AREA
     0503
     0504                     *BASIC PROGRAM
     0505
     0506                     *VARIABLE STORAGE AREA
     0507
     0508                     *ARRAY STORAGE AREA
     0509
     0510
     0511                     * FREE MEMORY
     0512
     0513
     0514                     *STACK
     0515
     0516                     *STRING SPACE
     0517
     0518                     *USER PROGRAM RESERVED AREA




                                                                    A7
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                               APPENDIX A                                         ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                 MEMORY MAP                            REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




     0519
     0520                     *END OF RAM
     0521
     0522   8000              ORG          $8000
     0523
     0524   8000                           RMB     $2000        EXTENDED BASIC ROM
     0525   A000                           RMB     $2000        COLOR BASIC ROM
     0526   C000              ROMPAK       EQU     *
     0527   C000              DOSBAS       RMB     $2000        DISK BASIC ROM/ENHANCED BASIC INIT CODE
     0528   E000                           RMB     $1F00        ENHANCED BASIC
     0529
     0530                     * START OF ADDITIONAL VARIABLES USED BY SUPER EXTENDED BASIC
     0531   FE00              H.CRSLOC RMB    2               CURRENT LOCATION OF CURSOR
     0532   FE02              H.CURSX   RMB   1               X POSITION OF CURSOR
     0533   FE03              H.CURSY   RMB   1               Y POSITION OF CURSOR
     0534   FE04              H.COLUMN RMB    1               COLUMNS ON HI-RES ALPHA SCREEN
     0535   FE05              H.ROW     RMB   1               ROWS ON HI-RES ALPHA SCREEN
     0536   FE06              H.DISPEN RMB    2               END OF HI-RES DISPLAY SCREEN
     0537   FE08              H.CRSATT RMB    1               CURRENT CURSOR'S ATTRIBUTES
     0538   FE09                        RMB   1               UNUSED
     0539   FE0A              H.FCOLOR RMB    1               FOREGROUND COLOR
     0540   FE0B              H.BCOLOR RMB    1               BACKGROUND COLOR
     0541   FE0C              H.ONBRK   RMB   2               ON BRK GOTO LINE NUMBER
     0542   FE0E              H.ONERR   RMB   2               ON ERR GOTO LINE NUMBER
     0543   FE10              H.ERROR   RMB   1               ERROR NUMBER ENCOUNTERED OR $FF (NO ERROR)
     0544   FE11              H.ONERRS RMB    2               ON ERR SOURCE LINE NUMBER
     0545   FE13              H.ERLINE RMB    2               LINE NUMBER WHERE ERROR OCCURRED
     0546   FE15              H.ONBRKS RMB    2               ON BRK SOURCE LINE NUMBER
     0547   FE17              H.ERRBRK RMB    1               STILL UNKNOWN, HAS TO DO WITH ERR, BRK
     0548   FE18              H.PCOUNT RMB    1               PRINT COUNT, CHARACTERS TO BE HPRINTED
     0549   FE19              H.PBUF    RMB   80              PRINT BUFFER, HPRINT CHARS. STORED HERE
     0550   FE69                        RMB   132             UNUSED
     0551   FEED              INT.FLAG RMB    1               INTERRUPT VALID FLAG. 0=NOT VALID, $55=VALID
     0552                     * TABLE OF JUMP VECTORS TO INTERRUPT SERVICING ROUTINES
     0553   FEEE              INT.JUMP
     0554   FEEE              INT.SWI3 RMB    3
     0555   FEF1              INT.SWI2 RMB    3
     0556   FEF4              INT.FIRQ RMB    3
     0557   FEF7              INT.IRQ   RMB   3
     0558   FEFA              INT.SWI   RMB   3
     0559   FEFD              INT.NMI   RMB   3
     0560
     0561                     * I/O AREA
     0562
     0563   FF00              PIA0         EQU     *            PERIPHERAL INTERFACE ADAPTER ONE
     0564
     0565   FF00              BIT0         KEYBOARD ROW 1 AND RIGHT JOYSTICK SWITCH 1
     0566                     BIT1         KEYBOARD ROW 2 AND LEFT JOYSTICK SWITCH 1
     0567                     BIT2         KEYBOARD ROW 3 AND RIGHT JOYSTICK SWITCH 2
     0568                     BIT3         KEYBOARD ROW 4 AND LEFT JOYSTICK SWITCH 2
     0569                     BIT4         KEYBOARD ROW 5
     0570                     BIT5         KEYBOARD ROW 6
     0571                     BIT6         KEYBOARD ROW 7
     0572                     BIT7         JOTSTICK COMPARISON IINPUT
     0573
     0574   FF01              BIT0         CONTROL OF HSYNC (63.5ps)    0 = IRQ* TO CPU DISABLED
     0575                                  INTERRUPT                    1 = IRQ* TO CPU ENABLED
     0576                     BIT1         CONTROL OF INTERRUPT         0 = FLAG SET ON FALLING EDGE OF HS
     0577                                  POLARITY                     1 = FLAG SET ON RISING EDGE OF HS
     0578                     BIT2         NORMALLY 1                   0 = CHANGES FF00 TO DATA DIRECTION
     0579                     BIT3         SEL 1                        LSB OF TWO ANALOG MUX SELECT LINES
     0580                     BIT4         ALWAYS 1
     0581                     BIT5         ALWAYS 1
     0582                     BIT6         NOT USED
     0583                     BIT7         HORIZONTAL SYNC INTERRUPT FLAG
     0584
     0585   FF02              BIT0         KEYBOARD COLUMN 1
     0586                     BIT1         KEYBOARD COLUMN 2
     0587                     BIT2         KEYBOARD COLUMN 3
     0588                     BIT3         KEYBOARD COLUMN 4
     0589                     BIT4         KEYBOARD COLUMN 5
     0590                     BIT5         KEYBOARD COLUMN 6
     0591                     BIT6         KEYBOARD COLUMN 7 / RAM SIZE OUTPUT
     0592                     BIT7         KEYBOARD COLUMN 8




                                                                    A8
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                               APPENDIX A                                             ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                 MEMORY MAP                                REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




     0593
     0594   FF03              BIT0      CONTROL OF VSYNC (16.667ms)      0 = IRQ* TO CPU DISABLED
     0595                               INTERRUPT                        1 = IRQ* TO CPU ENABLED
     0596                     BIT1      CONTROL OF INTERRUPT             0 = FLAG SET ON FALLING EDGE OF FS
     0597                               POLARITY                         1 = FLAG SET ON RISING EDGE OF FS
     0598                     BIT2      NORMALLY 1                       0 = CHANGES FF02 TO DATA DIRECTION
     0599                     BIT3      SEL 2                            MSB OF TWO ANALOG MUX SELECT LINES
     0600                     BIT4      ALWAYS 1
     0601                     BIT5      ALWAYS 1
     0602                     BIT6      NOT USED
     0603                     BIT7      FIELD SYNC INTERRUPT FLAG
     0604
     0605   FF04                        RMB   28                PIA0 IMAGES
     0606   FF20              DA
     0607   FF20              PIA1      EQU   *                 PERIPHERAL INTERFACE ADAPTER TWO
     0608
     0609   FF20              BIT0      CASSETTE DATA INPUT
     0610                     BIT1      RS-232C DATA OUTPUT
     0611                     BIT2      6 BIT D/A LSB
     0612                     BIT3      6 BIT D/A
     0613                     BIT4      6 BIT D/A
     0614                     BIT5      6 BIT D/A
     0615                     BIT6      6 BIT D/A
     0616                     BIT7      6 BIT D/A MSB
     0617
     0618   FF21              BIT0      CONTROL OF CD                    0 = FIRQ* TO CPU DISABLED
     0619                               (RS-232C STATUS)                 1 = FIRQ* TO CPU ENABLED
     0620                     BIT1      CONTROL OF INTERRUPT             0 = FLAG SET ON FALLING EDGE OF CD
     0621                               POLARITY                         1 = FLAG SET ON RISING EDGE OF CD
     0622                     BIT2      NORMALLY 1                       0 = CHANGES FF20 TO DATA DIRECTION
     0623                     BIT3      CASSETTE MOTOR CONTROL           0 = OFF       1 = ON
     0624                     BIT4      ALWAYS 1
     0625                     BIT5      ALWAYS 1
     0626                     BIT6      NOT USED
     0627                     BIT7      CD INTERRUPT FLAG
     0628
     0629   FF22              BIT0      RS-232C DATA INPUT
     0630                     BIT1      SINGLE BIT SOUND OUTPUT
     0631                     BIT2      RAM SIZE INPUT
     0632                     BIT3      RGB MONITOR SENSING INPUT        CSS
     0633                     BIT4      VDG CONTROL OUTPUT               GM0 & UPPER/LOWER CASE*
     0634                     BIT5      VDG CONTROL OUTPUT               GM1 & INVERT
     0635                     BIT6      VDG CONTROL OUTPUT               GM2
     0636                     BIT7      VDG CONTROL OUTPUT               A*/G
     0637
     0638   FF23              BIT0      CONTROL OF CARTRIDGE             0 = FIRQ* TO CPU DISABLED
     0639                               INTERRUPT                        1 = FIRQ* TO CPU ENABLED
     0640                     BIT1      CONTROL OF INTERRUPT             0 = FLAG SET ON FALLING EDGE OF CART*
     0641                               POLARITY                         1 = FLAG SET ON RISING EDGE OF CART*
     0642                     BIT2      NORMALLY 1                       0 = CHANGES FF22 TO DATA DIRECTION
     0643                     BIT3      SOUND ENABLE
     0644                     BIT4      ALWAYS 1
     0645                     BIT5      ALWAYS 1
     0646                     BIT6      NOT USED
     0647                     BIT7      CARTRIDGE INTERRUPT FLAG
     0648
     0649   FF24                        RMB   28                PIA1 IMAGES
     0650   FF40              PIA2
     0651   FF40              DSKREG    RMB   1                 DISK CONTROL REGISTER
     0652
     0653   FF40              BIT0      DRIVE SELECT 0
     0654                     BIT1      DRIVE SELECT 1
     0655                     BIT2      DRIVE SELECT 2
     0656                     BIT3      DRIVE MOTOR ENABLE               0 = MOTORS OFF      1 = MOTORS ON
     0657                     BIT4      WRITE PRECOMPENSATION            0 = NO PRECOMP      1 = PRECOMP
     0658                     BIT5      DENSITY FLAG                     0 = SINGLE          1 = DOUBLE
     0659                     BIT6      DRIVE SELECT 3
     0660                     BIT7      HALT FLAG                        0 = DISABLED        1 = ENABLED
     0661
     0662   FF41                        RMB   7                 DSKREG IMAGES
     0663
     0664                     * FLOPPY DISK CONTROLLER INTERNAL REGISTERS
     0665   FF48              FDCREG    RMB   1               STATUS/COMMAND REGISTER
     0666




                                                                    A9
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                                APPENDIX A                                           ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                  MEMORY MAP                              REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




     0667                     COMMANDS   TYPE   COMMAND                    CODE
     0668                                I      RESTORE                    $03
     0669                                I      SEEK                       $17
     0670                                I      STEP                       $23
     0671                                I      STEP IN                    $43
     0672                                I      STEP OUT                   $53
     0673                                II     READ SECTOR                $80
     0674                                II     WRITE SECTOR               $A0
     0675                                III    READ ADDRESS               $C0
     0676                                III    READ TRACK                 $E4
     0677                                III    WRITE TRACK                $F4
     0678                                IV     FORCE INTERRUPT            $D0
     0679
     0680                     STATUS     BIT    TYPE I            READ ADDRESS/SECTOR/TRACK    WRITE SECTOR/TRACK
     0681                                S0     BUSY              BUSY                         BUSY
     0682                                S1     INDEX             DRQ                          DRQ
     0683                                S2     TRACK 0           LOST DATA                    LOST DATA
     0684                                S3     CRC ERROR         CRC ERROR (EXCEPT TRACK)     CRC ERROR (EXCEPT TRACK)
     0685                                S4     SEEK ERROR        RNF (EXCEPT TRACK)           RNF (EXCEPT TRACK)
     0686                                S5     HEAD LOADED       RECORD TYPE (SECTOR ONLY)    WRITE FAULT
     0687                                S6     WRITE PROTECT                                  WRITE PROTECT
     0688                                S7     NOT READY         NOT READY                    NOT READY
     0689
     0690   FF49                         RMB    1                 TRACK REGISTER
     0691   FF4A                         RMB    1                 SECTOR REGISTER
     0692   FF4B                         RMB    1                 DATA REGISTER
     0693   FF4C                         RMB    4                 FDCREG IMAGES
     0694
     0695   FF50                        RMB   16                  UNUSED SPACE
     0696   FF60                        RMB   1                   X COORDINATE FOR X-PAD
     0697   FF61                        RMB   1                   Y COORDINATE FOR X-PAD
     0698   FF62                        RMB   1                   STATUS REGISTER FOR X-PAD
     0699   FF63                        RMB   5                   UNUSED
     0700                     * RS-232 PROGRAM PAK
     0701   FF68                        RMB   1                   READ/WRITE DATA REGISTER
     0702   FF69                        RMB   1                   STATUS REGISTER
     0703   FF6A                        RMB   1                   COMMAND REGISTER
     0704   FF6B                        RMB   1                   CONTROL REGISTER
     0705   FF6C                        RMB   4
     0706   FF70                        RMB   13
     0707   FF7D                        RMB   1                   SOUND/SPEECH CARTRIDGE RESET
     0708   FF7E                        RMB   1                   SOUND/SPEECH CARTRIDGE READ/WRITE
     0709   FF7F                        RMB   1                   MULTI-PAK PROGRAMMING REGISTER
     0710
     0711   FF80                         RMB    64                RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION
     0712
     0713                     * VIDEO CONTROL REGISTERS
     0714   FF90              INIT0     RMB   1                   INITIALIZATION REGISTER 0
     0715
     0716   FF90              BIT0       MC0                               ROM MAP CONTROL (SEE TABLE BELOW)
     0717                     BIT1       MC1                               ROM MAP CONTROL (SEE TABLE BELOW)
     0718                     BIT2       MC2                               STANDARD SCS
     0719                     BIT3       MC3                               1 = DRAM AT 0xFEXX IS CONSTANT
     0720                     BIT4       FEN                               1 = CHIP FIRQ OUTPUT ENABLED
     0721                     BIT5       IEN                               1 = CHIP IRQ OUTPUT ENABLED
     0722                     BIT6       M/P                               1 = MMU ENABLED
     0723                     BIT7       COCO                              1 = COCO 1 & 2 COMPATIBLE
     0724
     0725                                MC1    MC0               ROM MAPPING
     0726                                0      x                 16K INTERNAL, 16K EXTERNAL
     0727                                1      0                 32K INTERNAL
     0728                                1      1                 32L EXTERNAL (EXCEPT FOR VECTORS)
     0729
     0730   FF91              INIT1      RMB    1                 INITIALIZATION REGISTER 1
     0731
     0732   FF91              BIT0       TR                                MMU TASK REGISTER SELECT
     0733                     BIT1
     0734                     BIT2
     0735                     BIT3
     0736                     BIT4
     0737                     BIT5       TINS                              TIMER INPUT SELECT: 1=70ns, 0=63ns
     0738                     BIT6
     0739                     BIT7
     0740




                                                                     A10
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                            APPENDIX A                                              ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                              MEMORY MAP                                 REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




     0741
     0742   FF92              IRQENR     RMB     1           IRQ INTERRUPT ENABLE REGISTER
     0743
     0744   FF92              BIT0       EI0                           CARTRIDGE IRQ ENABLED
     0745                     BIT1       EI1                           KEYBOARD IRQ ENABLED
     0746                     BIT2       EI2                           SERIAL DATA IRQ ENABLED
     0747                     BIT3       VBORD                         VERTICAL BORDER IRQ ENABLED
     0748                     BIT4       HBORD                         HORIZONTAL BORDER IRQ ENABLED
     0749                     BIT5       TMR                           INTERRUPT FROM TIMER ENABLED
     0750                     BIT6
     0751                     BIT7
     0752
     0753   FF93              FIRQENR    RMB     1           FIRQ INTERRUPT ENABLE REGISTER
     0754
     0755   FF93              BIT0       EI0                           CARTRIDGE FIRQ ENABLED
     0756                     BIT1       EI1                           KEYBOARD FIRQ ENABLED
     0757                     BIT2       EI2                           SERIAL DATA FIRQ ENABLED
     0758                     BIT3       VBORD                         VERTICAL BORDER FIRQ ENABLED
     0759                     BIT4       HBORD                         HORIZONTAL BORDER FIRQ ENABLED
     0760                     BIT5       TMR                           INTERRUPT FROM TIMER ENABLED
     0761                     BIT6
     0762                     BIT7
     0763
     0764   FF94              V.TIMER    RMB     2           TIMER REGISTER
     0765   FF96                         RMB     2           RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION
     0766
     0767   FF98              VIDEOREG   RMB     1           VIDEO MODE REGISTER
     0768
     0769   FF98              BIT0       LPR0                          LINES PER ROW (SEE TABLE BELOW)
     0770                     BIT1       LPR1                          LINES PER ROW (SEE TABLE BELOW)
     0771                     BIT2       LPR2                          LINES PER ROW (SEE TABLE BELOW)
     0772                     BIT3       H50                           1 = 50 Hz VERTICAL REFRESH
     0773                     BIT4       MOCH                          1 = MONOCHROME (ON COMPOSITE)
     0774                     BIT5       BPI                           1 = BURST PHASE INVERTED
     0775                     BIT6
     0776                     BIT7       BP                            0 = ALPHA, 1 = BIT PLANE
     0777
     0778                     LPR2       LPR1    LPR0        LINES PER CHARACTER ROW
     0779                     0          0       0           1             (GRAPHICS MODES)
     0780                     0          0       1           2             (COCO 1 & 2 ONLY)
     0781                     0          1       0           3             (COCO 1 & 2 ONLY)
     0782                     0          1       1           8
     0783                     1          0       0           9
     0784                     1          0       1           (RESERVED)
     0785                     1          1       0           12
     0786                     1          1       1           (RESERVED)
     0787
     0788   FF99              VIDEOREG   RMB     1           VIDEO MODE REGISTER
     0789
     0790   FF99              BIT0       CRES0                         COLOR RESOLUTION
     0791                     BIT1       CRES1                         COLOR RESOLUTION
     0792                     BIT2       HRES0                         HORIZONTAL RESOLUTION
     0793                     BIT3       HRES1                         HORIZONTAL RESOLUTION
     0794                     BIT4       HRES2                         HORIZONTAL RESOLUTION
     0795                     BIT5       LPF0                          LINES PER FIELD (SEE TABLE BELOW)
     0796                     BIT6       LPF1                          LINES PER FIELD (SEE TABLE BELOW)
     0797                     BIT7
     0798
     0799                                LPF1    LPF0        LINES PER FIELD
     0800                                0       0           192
     0801                                0       1           200
     0802                                1       0           RESERVED
     0803                                1       1           225
     0804
     0805                     * VIDEO RESOLUTION
     0806                               ALPHA: BP = 0, COCO = 0
     0807                                     MODE            HRES2    HRES1   HRES0   CRES1   CRES0
     0808                                     32 CHARACTER    0                0               1
     0809                                     40 CHARACTER    0                1               1
     0810                                     80 CHARACTER    1                1               1
     0811                               GRAPHICS: BP = 1, COCO = 0
     0812                                     PIXELSxCOLORS   HRES2    HRES1   HRES0   CRES1   CRES0
     0813                                     640x4           1        1       1       0       1
     0814                                     640x2           1        0       1       0       0




                                                                 A11
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                            APPENDIX A                                        ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                              MEMORY MAP                           REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




     0815                                     512x4          1         1    0     0     1
     0816                                     512x2          1         0    0     0     0
     0817                                     320x16         1         1    1     1     0
     0818                                     320x4          1         0    1     0     1
     0819                                     256x16         1         1    0     1     0
     0820                                     256x4          1         0    0     0     1
     0821                                     256x2          0         1    0     0     0
     0822                                     160x16         1         0    1     1     0
     0823
     0824                     * COCO MODE SELECTION
     0825                                                    DISPLAY MODE         REG. FF22
     0826                                                    V2     V1      V0    7      6     5    4     3
     0827                     ALPHA                          0      0       0     0      x     x    0     CSS
     0828                     ALPHA INVERTED                 0      0       0     0      x     x    0     CSS
     0829                     SEMIGRAPHICS 4                 0      0       0     0      x     x    0     x
     0830                     64x64 COLOR GRAPHICS           0      0       1     1      0     0    0     CSS
     0831                     128x64 GRAPHICS                0      0       1     1      0     0    1     CSS
     0832                     128x64 COLOR GRAPHICS          0      1       0     1      0     1    0     CSS
     0833                     128x96 GRAPHICS                0      1       1     1      0     1    1     CSS
     0834                     128x96 COLOR GRAPHICS          1      0       0     1      1     0    0     CSS
     0835                     128x96 GRAPHICS                1      0       1     1      1     0    1     CSS
     0836                     128x96 COLOR GRAPHICS          1      1       0     1      1     1    0     CSS
     0837                     256x192 GRAPHICS               1      1       0     1      1     1    1     CSS
     0838
     0839                     * ALPHANUMERIC MODES
     0840                               TEXT SCREEN MEMORY
     0841                                     EVEN BYTE
     0842                                     BIT0           CHARACTER BIT 0
     0843                                     BIT1           CHARACTER BIT 1
     0844                                     BIT2           CHARACTER BIT 2
     0845                                     BIT3           CHARACTER BIT 3
     0846                                     BIT4           CHARACTER BIT 4
     0847                                     BIT5           CHARACTER BIT 5
     0848                                     BIT6           CHARACTER BIT 6
     0849                                     BIT7
     0850
     0851                                      ODD BYTE
     0852                                      BIT0           BGND0 BACKGROUND COLOR BIT (PALETTE ADDR)
     0853                                      BIT1           BGND1 BACKGROUND COLOR BIT (PALETTE ADDR)
     0854                                      BIT2           BGND2 BACKGROUND COLOR BIT (PALETTE ADDR)
     0855                                      BIT3           FGBD0 FOREGROUND COLOR BIT (PALETTE ADDR)
     0856                                      BIT4           FGND1 FOREGROUND COLOR BIT (PALETTE ADDR)
     0857                                      BIT5           FGND2 FOREGROUND COLOR BIT (PALETTE ADDR)
     0858                                      BIT6           UNDLN CHARACTERS ARE UNDERLINED
     0859                                      BIT7           BLINK CHARACTERS BLINK AT 1/2 SEC. RATE
     0860                               * ATTRIBUTES NOT AVAILABLE WHEN COCO = 1
     0861                     * GRAPHICS MODES
     0862                               16 COLOR MODES: (CRES1=1, CRES0 = 0)
     0863                                      BYTE FROM DRAM
     0864                                      BIT0           PA0, SECOND PIXEL
     0865                                      BIT1           PA1, SECOND PIXEL
     0866                                      BIT2           PA2, SECOND PIXEL
     0867                                      BIT3           PA3, SECOND PIXEL
     0868                                      BIT4           PA0, FIRST PIXEL
     0869                                      BIT5           PA1, FIRST PIXEL
     0870                                      BIT6           PA2, FIRST PIXEL
     0871                                      BIT7           PA3, FIRST PIXEL
     0872                               4 COLOR MODES: (CRES1=0, CRES0 = 1)
     0873                                      BYTE FROM DRAM
     0874                                      BIT0           PA0, FOURTH PIXEL
     0875                                      BIT1           PA1, FOURTH PIXEL
     0876                                      BIT2           PA0, THIRD PIXEL
     0877                                      BIT3           PA1, THIRD PIXEL
     0878                                      BIT4           PA0, SECOND PIXEL
     0879                                      BIT5           PA1, SECOND PIXEL
     0880                                      BIT6           PA0, FIRST PIXEL
     0881                                      BIT7           PA1, FIRST PIXEL
     0882                               2 COLOR MODES: (CRES1=0, CRES0 = 0)
     0883                                      BYTE FROM DRAM
     0884                                      BIT0           PA0, EIGHTH PIXEL
     0885                                      BIT1           PA0, SEVENTH PIXEL
     0886                                      BIT2           PA0, SIXTH PIXEL
     0887                                      BIT3           PA0, FIFTH PIXEL
     0888                                      BIT4           PA0, FORTH PIXEL




                                                                 A12
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                            APPENDIX A                                            ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                              MEMORY MAP                               REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




     0889                                     BIT5            PA0, THIRD PIXEL
     0890                                     BIT6            PA0, SECOND PIXEL
     0891                                     BIT7            PA0, FIRST PIXEL
     0892                     * PALETTE ADDRESSES
     0893                                     ADDRESS         PA3         PA2   PA1   PA0
     0894                                     FFB0            0           0     0     0
     0895                                     FFB1            0           0     0     1
     0896                                     FFB2            0           0     1     0
     0897                                     FFB3            0           0     1     1
     0898                                     FFB4            0           1     0     0
     0899                                     FFB5            0           1     0     1
     0900                                     FFB6            0           1     1     0
     0901                                     FFB7            0           1     1     1
     0902                                     FFB8            1           0     0     0
     0903                                     FFB9            1           0     0     1
     0904                                     FFBA            1           0     1     0
     0905                                     FFBB            1           0     1     1
     0906                                     FFBC            1           1     0     0
     0907                                     FFBD            1           1     0     1
     0908                                     FFBE            1           1     1     0
     0909                                     FFBF            1           1     1     1
     0910
     0911   FF9A              V.BORDER   RMB    1             BORDER REGISTER
     0912
     0913   FF9A              BIT0       BLU0                             BLUE LSB
     0914                     BIT1       GRN0                             GREEN LSB
     0915                     BIT2       RED0                             RED LSB
     0916                     BIT3       BLU1                             BLUE MSB
     0917                     BIT4       GRN1                             GREEN MSB
     0918                     BIT5       RED1                             RED MSB
     0919                     BIT6
     0920                     BIT7
     0921
     0922   FF9B                         RMB    1             RESERVED
     0923   FF9C              V.SCROLL   RMB    1             VERTICAL SCROLL REGISTER
     0924
     0925   FF9C              BIT0      VSC0
     0926                     BIT1      VSC1
     0927                     BIT2      VSC2
     0928                     BIT3      VSC3
     0929                     BIT4
     0930                     BIT5
     0931                     BIT6
     0932                     BIT7
     0933                     * IN COCO MODE, THE VSC'S MUST BE INITIALIZED TO $0F
     0934
     0935   FF9D              V.OFSET1   RMB    1             VERTICAL OFFSET 1 REGISTER
     0936
     0937   FF9D              BIT0       Y11
     0938                     BIT1       Y12
     0939                     BIT2       Y13
     0940                     BIT3       Y14
     0941                     BIT4       Y15
     0942                     BIT5       Y16
     0943                     BIT6       Y17
     0944                     BIT7       Y18
     0945
     0946   FF9E              V.OFSET0   RMB    1             VERTICAL OFFSET 0 REGISTER
     0947
     0948   FF9E              BIT0      Y3
     0949                     BIT1      Y4
     0950                     BIT2      Y5
     0951                     BIT3      Y6
     0952                     BIT4      Y7
     0953                     BIT5      Y8
     0954                     BIT6      Y9
     0955                     BIT7      Y10
     0956                     * IN COCO MODE, Y9-Y15 ARE NOT EFFECTIVE, AND ARE CONTROLLED BY
     0957                       SAM BITS F0-F6. ALSO IN COCO MODE, Y16-Y18 SHOULD BE 1, ALL OTHERS 0
     0958
     0959   FF9F              H.OFSET0   RMB    1             HORIZONTAL OFFSET 0 REGISTER
     0960
     0961   FF9F              BIT0       X0                   HORIZONTAL OFFSET ADDRESS
     0962                     BIT1       X1                   HORIZONTAL OFFSET ADDRESS




                                                                    A13
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                             APPENDIX A                                             ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                               MEMORY MAP                                REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




     0963                     BIT2      X2                    HORIZONTAL OFFSET ADDRESS
     0964                     BIT3      X3                    HORIZONTAL OFFSET ADDRESS
     0965                     BIT4      X4                    HORIZONTAL OFFSET ADDRESS
     0966                     BIT5      X5                    HORIZONTAL OFFSET ADDRESS
     0967                     BIT6      X6                    HORIZONTAL OFFSET ADDRESS
     0968                     BIT7      XVEN                  HORIZONTAL VIRTUAL ENABLE
     0969                     * HVEN ENABLES A HORIZONTAL SCREEN WIDTH OF 128 BYTES REGARDLESS OF THE
     0970                       HRES BITS AND CRES BITS SELECTED. THIS WILL ALLOW A 'VIRTUAL' SCREEN
     0971                       SOMEWHAT LARGER THAN THE DISPLAYED SCREEN. THE USER CAN MOVE THIS
     0972                       'WINDOW' (THE DISPLAYED SCREEN) BY MEANS OF THE HORIZONTAL OFFSET
     0973                       BITS. IN CHARACTER MODE, THE SCREEN WIDTH IS 128 CHARACTERS REGARDLESS
     0974                       OF ATTRIBUTE (OR 64, IF DOUBLE-WIDE IS SELECTED).
     0975
     0976   FFA0              MMUREG     RMB   16              MEMORY MANAGEMENT UNIT REGISTERS (6 BITS)
     0977
     0978                     * RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN DATA IN TASK REGISTER AND GENERATED ADDRESS
     0979                                     BIT             D5     D4     D3     D2     D1     D0
     0980                                     CORRESPONDING
     0981                                     MEMORY ADDRESS A18     A17    A16    A15    A14    A13
     0982
     0983                     * DATA FROM THE MMU IS THEN USED AS THE UPPER 6 ADDRESS LINES (A13-A18)
     0984                       FOR MEMORY ACCESS
     0985                                     ADDRESS RANGE   TR     A15    A14    A13    MMU LOCATION
     0986                                     X0000 - X1FFF   0      0      0      0      FFA0
     0987                                     X2000 - X3FFF   0      0      0      1      FFA1
     0988                                     X4000 - X5FFF   0      0      1      0      FFA2
     0989                                     X6000 - X7FFF   0      0      1      1      FFA3
     0990                                     X8000 - X9FFF   0      1      0      0      FFA4
     0991                                     XA000 - XBFFF   0      1      0      1      FFA5
     0992                                     XC000 - XDFFF   0      1      1      0      FFA6
     0993                                     XE000 - XFFFF   0      1      1      1      FFA7
     0994
     0995                                      X0000 - X1FFF   1          0    0    0        FFA8
     0996                                      X2000 - X3FFF   1          0    0    1        FFA9
     0997                                      X4000 - X5FFF   1          0    1    0        FFAA
     0998                                      X6000 - X7FFF   1          0    1    1        FFAB
     0999                                      X8000 - X9FFF   1          1    0    0        FFAC
     1000                                      XA000 - XBFFF   1          1    0    1        FFAD
     1001                                      XC000 - XDFFF   1          1    1    0        FFAE
     1002                                      XE000 - XFFFF   1          1    1    1        FFAF
     1003
     1004   FFB0              PALETREG   RMB   16              COLOR PALETTE REGISTERS (6 BITS)
     1005
     1006                                      DATA BIT        D5         D4   D3   D2       D1     D0
     1007                                      RGB OUTPUT      R1         G1   B1   R0       G0     B0
     1008                                      COMP. OUTPUT    I1         I0   P3   P2       P1     P0
     1009
     1010                     * FOR COCO COMPATIBILITY, THE FOLLOWING SHOULD BE LOADED ON INITIALIZATION
     1011                       (RGB VALUES) FOR PAL VERSION, IGNORE TABLE FOR COMPOSITE
     1012                               FFB0 GREEN            $12
     1013                               FFB1 YELLOW           $36
     1014                               FFB2 BLUE             $09
     1015                               FFB3 RED              $24
     1016                               FFB4 BUFF             $3F
     1017                               FFB5 CYAN             $10
     1018                               FFB6 MAGENTA          $2D
     1019                               FFB7 ORANGE           $26
     1020                               FFB8 BLACK            $00
     1021                               FFB9 GREEN            $12
     1022                               FFBA BLACK            $00
     1023                               FFBB BUFF             $3F
     1024                               FFBC BLACK            $00
     1025                               FFBD GREEN            $12
     1026                               FFBE BLACK            $00
     1027                               FFBF ORANGE           $26
     1028
     1029   FFC0              SAMREG     EQU   *               SAM CONTROL REGISTERS
     1030
     1031   FFC0              V0CLR      RMB   1               CLEAR COCO GRAPHICS MODE V0
     1032   FFC1              V0SET      RMB   1               SET COCO GRAPHICS MODE V0
     1033   FFC2              V1CLR      RMB   1               CLEAR COCO GRAPHICS MODE V1
     1034   FFC3              V1SET      RMB   1               SET COCO GRAPHICS MODE V1
     1035   FFC4              V2CLR      RMB   1               CLEAR COCO GRAPHICS MODE V2
     1036   FFC5              V2SET      RMB   1               SET COCO GRAPHICS MODE V2




                                                                    A14
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                         APPENDIX A                                          ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                           MEMORY MAP                             REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




     1037   FFC6              F0CLR    RMB   1             CLEAR COCO GRAPHICS OFFSET F0
     1038   FFC7              F0SET    RMB   1             SET COCO GRAPHICS OFFSET F0
     1039   FFC8              F1CLR    RMB   1             CLEAR COCO GRAPHICS OFFSET F1
     1040   FFC9              F1SET    RMB   1             SET COCO GRAPHICS OFFSET F1
     1041   FFCA              F2CLR    RMB   1             CLEAR COCO GRAPHICS OFFSET F2
     1042   FFCB              F2SET    RMB   1             SET COCO GRAPHICS OFFSET F2
     1043   FFCC              F3CLR    RMB   1             CLEAR COCO GRAPHICS OFFSET F3
     1044   FFCD              F3SET    RMB   1             SET COCO GRAPHICS OFFSET F3
     1045   FFCE              F4CLR    RMB   1             CLEAR COCO GRAPHICS OFFSET F4
     1046   FFCF              F4SET    RMB   1             SET COCO GRAPHICS OFFSET F4
     1047   FFD0              F5CLR    RMB   1             CLEAR COCO GRAPHICS OFFSET F5
     1048   FFD1              F5SET    RMB   1             SET COCO GRAPHICS OFFSET F5
     1049   FFD2              F6CLR    RMB   1             CLEAR COCO GRAPHICS OFFSET F6
     1050   FFD3              F6SET    RMB   1             SET COCO GRAPHICS OFFSET F6
     1051   FFD4                       RMB   4             RESERVED
     1052   FFD8              R1CLR    RMB   1             CLEAR CPU RATE, (0.89 MHz)
     1053   FFD9              R1SET    RMB   1             SET CPU RATE, (1.78 MHz)
     1054   FFDA                       RMB   4             RESERVED
     1055   FFDE              ROMCLR   RMB   1             ROM DISABLED
     1056   FFDF              ROMSET   RMB   1             ROM ENABLED
     1057
     1058   FFE0                       RMB   18            RESERVED FOR FUTURE MPU ENHANCEMENTS
     1059                     *        INTERRUPT VECTORS
     1060   FFF2              SWI3     RMB   2
     1061   FFF4              SWI2     RMB   2
     1062   FFF6              FIRQ     RMB   2
     1063   FFF8              IRQ      RMB   2
     1064   FFFA              SWI      RMB   2
     1065   FFFC              NMI      RMB   2
     1066   FFFE              RESETV   RMB   2




                                                              A15
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                                              APPENDIX B                                                           ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                  DISASSEMBLY OF SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 1.1                               REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




       0001     C000                         ORG   $C000
       0002
       0003     C000 1A 50           LC000    ORCC #$50                               DISABLE IRQ, FIRQ INTERRUPTS
       0004     C002 10 CE 5E FF              LDS   #$5EFF                            INITIALIZE STACK POINTER
       0005     C006 86 12                    LDA   #$12                              PALETTE COLOR: COMPOSITE-GREEN, RGB-INDIGO
       0006                          * INITIALIZE ALL PALETTE REGISTERS TO GREEN (COMPOSITE)
       0007     C008 C6 10                    LDB   #16                               16 PALETTE REGISTERS
       0008     C00A 8E FF B0                 LDX   #PALETREG                         POINT X TO THE PALETTE REGISTERS
       0009     C00D A7 80           LC00D    STA   ,X+                               SAVE THE COLOR IN THE PALETTE REGISTER
       0010     C00F 5A                       DECB                                    BUMP COUNTER
       0011     C010 26 FB                    BNE   LC00D                             LOOP UNTIL ALL PALETTE REGISTERS DONE
       0012
       0013     C012 8E FF A0                 LDX   #MMUREG                           POINT X TO THE MMU REGISTERS
       0014     C015 31 8D 02 2D              LEAY MMUIMAGE,PC                        POINT Y TO THE MMU REGISTER IMAGES
       0015     C019 C6 10                    LDB   #16                               16 MMU REGISTERS
       0016     C01B A6 A0           LC01B    LDA   ,Y+                               GET A BYTE FROM THE IMAGE
       0017     C01D A7 80                    STA   ,X+                               SAVE IT IN THE MMU REGISTER
       0018     C01F 5A                       DECB                                    BUMP COUNTER
       0019     C020 26 F9                    BNE   LC01B                             LOOP UNTIL DONE
       0020     C022 86 CE                    LDA   #COCO+MMUEN+MC3+MC2+MC1           ENABLE COCO COMPATIBLE MODE; ENABLE MMU
       0021     C024 B7 FF 90                 STA   INIT0                             AND TURN ON THE NORMAL SPARE CHIP SELECT
       0022                          * MOVE THE INITIALIZATION CODE FROM ROM TO RAM($4000); THIS IS DONE IN
       0023                          * PREPARATION FOR MOVING BASIC FROM ROM TO RAM.
       0024     C027 30 8D 00 14              LEAX BEGMOVE,PC                         POINT TO START OF ROM CODE
       0025     C02B 10 8E 40 00              LDY   #$4000                            RAM LOAD ADDRESS
       0026     C02F EC 81           LC02F    LDD   ,X++                              GRAB TWO BYTES
       0027     C031 EE 81                    LDU   ,X++                              GRAB TWO MORE BYTES
       0028     C033 ED A1                    STD   ,Y++                              MOVE FIRST SET OF BYTES
       0029     C035 EF A1                    STU   ,Y++                              AND THEN THE SECOND
       0030     C037 8C C3 6C                 CMPX #ENDMOVE                           ARE ALL BYTES MOVED?
       0031     C03A 25 F3                    BCS   LC02F                             KEEP GOING UNTIL DONE
       0032     C03C 7E 40 00                 JMP   L4000                             JUMP INTO THE MOVED CODE
       0033
       0034                          * THE REST OF THE CODE IS MOVED INTO RAM TO BE EXECUTED
       0035     C03F 32 7F           BEGMOVE LEAS $-01,S                              MAKE A TEMPORARY STORAGE LOCATION ON THE STACK
       0036     C041 12                       NOP
       0037     C042 12                       NOP
       0038     C043 12                       NOP
       0039     C044 12                       NOP
       0040     C045 12                       NOP                                     SPACE FILLER NOPS - THEY SERVE NO PURPOSE
       0041     C046 86 FF                    LDA   #$FF
       0042     C048 B7 FF 94                 STA   V.TIMER
       0043     C04B B7 FF 95                 STA   V.TIMER+1                         SET THE TIMER TO $FFFF AND START IT COUNTING
       0044
       0045                          * SET UP THE VIDEO CONTROL REGISTERS
       0046     C04E 30 8D 01 DC              LEAX VIDIMAGE,PC                        POINT X TO THE VIDEO CONTROL REGISTER IMAGE
       0047     C052 10 8E FF 98              LDY   #VIDEOREG                         POINT Y TO THE VIDEO CONTROL REGISTERS
       0048     C056 A6 80           LC056    LDA   ,X+                               GET A BYTE FROM THE IMAGE
       0049     C058 A7 A0                    STA   ,Y+                               SAVE IT IN THE VIDEO REGISTER
       0050     C05A 10 8C FF A0              CMPY #MMUREG                            CHECK FOR THE END OF THE VIDEO MODE REGISTERS
       0051     C05E 26 F6                    BNE   LC056                             LOOP UNTIL DONE
       0052                          * INITIALIZE PIA1
       0053     C060 8E FF 20                 LDX   #PIA1                             POINT X TO PIA 1
       0054     C063 CC FF 34                 LDD   #$FF34
       0055     C066 6F 01                    CLR   $01,X                             CLEAR CONTROL REGISTER A
       0056     C068 6F 03                    CLR   $03,X                             CLEAR CONTROL REGISTER B; ENABLE BOTH DATA DIRECTION REGISTERS
       0057     C06A 4A                       DECA                                    SET ACCA TO $FE
       0058     C06B A7 84                    STA   ,X                                BIT 0 INPUT, ALL OTHERS OUTPUT ON PORT A
       0059     C06D 86 F8                    LDA   #$F8
       0060     C06F A7 02                    STA   $02,X                             BITS 0-2 INPUT, 3-7 OUTPUT ON PORT B
       0061     C071 E7 01                    STB   $01,X                             SET PORT TO PERIPHERAL REGISTER, CA1 DISABLED, CA2 ENABLED AS INPUT
       0062     C073 E7 03                    STB   $03,X                             SET PORT TO PERIPHERAL REGISTER, CB1 DISABLED, CB2 ENABLED AS INPUT
       0063     C075 6F 02                    CLR   $02,X                             SET THE GRAPHICS MODE TO NORMAL LO-RES COCO ALPHA
       0064     C077 86 02                    LDA   #$02
       0065     C079 A7 84                    STA   ,X                                SET THE DA OUTPUT TO ZERO AND THE RS232 OUTPUT TO MARKING
       0066     C07B 86 FF                    LDA   #$FF
       0067                          * INITIALIZE PIA0
       0068     C07D 8E FF 00                 LDX   #PIA0                             POINT X TO PIA 0
       0069     C080 6F 01                    CLR   $01,X                             CLEAR CONTROL REGISTER A; ENABLE BOTH DATA DIRECTION REGISTERS
       0070     C082 6F 03                    CLR   $03,X                             CLEAR CONTROL REGISTER B; ENABLE BOTH DATA DIRECTION REGISTERS
       0071     C084 6F 84                    CLR   ,X                                SET PORT A TO ALL INPUTS
       0072     C086 A7 02                    STA   $02,X                             SET PORT B TO ALL OUTPUTS
       0073     C088 E7 01                    STB   $01,X                             SET PORT TO PERIPHERAL REGISTER, CA1 DISABLED, CA2 ENABLED AS INPUT
       0074     C08A E7 03                    STB   $03,X                             SET PORT TO PERIPHERAL REGISTER, CB1 DISABLED, CB2 ENABLED AS INPUT
       0075                          * INITIALIZE THE SAM MIRROR REGISTERS IN THE CUSTOM CHIP
       0076     C08C C6 0C                    LDB   #12                               RESET 12 SAM IMAGE REGISTERS
       0077     C08E CE FF C0                 LDU   #SAM                              POINT U TO THE SAM REGISTERS
       0078     C091 A7 C1           LC091    STA   ,U++                              CLEAR THE BIT AND SKIP TO THE NEXT BIT
       0079     C093 5A                       DECB                                    BUMP COUNTER
       0080     C094 26 FB                    BNE   LC091                             LOOP UNTIL ALL BITS CLEARED
       0081     C096 B7 FF C9                 STA   SAM+9                             SET THE VIDEO DISPLAY PAGE TO $400
       0082     C099 1F 9B                    TFR   B,DP                              SET THE DIRECT PAGE TO PAGE ZERO
       0083     C09B 6F 02                    CLR   $02,X                             STROBE ALL KEYBOARD COLUMNS; USELESS INSTRUCTION
       0084     C09D A7 5D                    STA   $-03,U                            SAMREG+21 (FFD5); SELECT RAM PAGE 1; USELESS IN THE COCO 3
       0085     C09F 8E FF 00                 LDX   #PIA0                             POINT X TO PIA 0; WHY?? IT'S ALREADY POINTED THERE
       0086     C0A2 C6 DF                    LDB   #$DF                              COLUMN TWO STROBE
       0087     C0A4 E7 02                    STB   $02,X                             STROBE THE COLUMNS
       0088     C0A6 A6 84                    LDA   ,X                                READ THE ROWS
       0089     C0A8 43                       COMA
       0090     C0A9 84 40                    ANDA #$40                               LOOK FOR ROW 6 ONLY (F1 KEY)
       0091     C0AB A7 E4                    STA   ,S                                SAVE IN TEMPORARY STORAGE
       0092                          * CHECK FOR THE CONTROL AND ALT KEYS
       0093     C0AD 10 8E 00 02              LDY   #2                                CHECK FOR TWO KEYS
       0094     C0B1 57              LC0B1    ASRB                                    SHIFT THE COLUMN STROBE -- WASTED, SHOULD BE ASR 2,X
       0095     C0B2 E7 02                    STB   $02,X                             SAVE THE NEW COLUMN STROBE
       0096     C0B4 A6 84                    LDA   ,X                                READ THE KEYBOARD ROWS




                                                                                    B1
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                                               APPENDIX B                                                               ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                   DISASSEMBLY OF SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 1.1                                   REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




       0097     C0B6 43                       COMA
       0098     C0B7 84 40                    ANDA   #$40                                  KEEP ONLY ROW 6
       0099     C0B9 27 07                    BEQ    LC0C2                                 BRANCH IF KEY NOT DOWN
       0100     C0BB 31 3F                    LEAY   $-01,Y                                LET'S CHECK FOT EH ALT KEY NOW
       0101     C0BD 26 F2                    BNE    LC0B1
       0102     C0BF 16 01 2E                 LBRA   LC1F0                                 GO DISPLAY THE HI-RES PICTURE IF CONTROL AND ALT KEYS ARE DOWN
       0103     C0C2 86 CA           LC0C2    LDA    #COCO+MMUEN+MC3+MC1                   TURN OFF THE NORMAL SCS; THE EXTERNAL DISK CONTROLLER
       0104     C0C4 B7 FF 90                 STA    INIT0                                 MAY NOT BE ACCESSED NOW
       0105
       0106                          * THE FOLLOWING CODE CHECKS TO DETERMINE IF A JUMP TO WARM START RESET CODE SHOULD BE DONE.
       0107                          * THE JUMP TO A WARM START RESET WILL BE DONE IF 1) INT.FLAG CONTAINS A $55 AND,
       0108                          * 2) RSTFLG CONTAINS A $55 AND, 3) THE ADDRESS IN RSTVEC POINTS TO A $12 (NOP INSTRUCTION.)
       0109                          * IF THE ABOVE CONDITIONS ARE MET, BASIC WILL BE WARM-STARTED. IF INT.FLAG DOES NOT CONTAIN
       0110                          * A $55, BASIC WILL BE COLD-STARTED. IF INT.FLAG DOES CONTAIN A $55, BUT 2) AND 3) ABOVE
       0111                          * ARE NOT MET, BLOCK 6.0 (128K SYSTEM) OR BLOCK 0.0 (512K SYSTEM) WILL BE LOADED INTO CPU
       0112                          * BLOCK 0. THIS WILL GIVE THE CPU A NEW DIRECT PAGE AND CHECKS 2) AND 3) ABOVE WILL BE
       0113                          * PERFORMED ON THIS NEW DIRECT PAGE TO SEE IF BASIC SHOULD BE WARM-STARTED.
       0114
       0115     C0C7 B6 FE ED                 LDA    INT.FLAG                              GET THE INTERRUPT JUMP TABLE VALIDITY FLAG.
       0116     C0CA 81 55                    CMPA   #$55                                  CHECK FOR VALID INTERRUPT JUMP TABLE FLAG
       0117     C0CC 26 28                    BNE    LC0F6                                 INTERRUPT JUMP TABLE IS NOT VALID' COPY ROM TO RAM
       0118     C0CE 96 71                    LDA    RSTFLG                                GET THE SYSTEM RESET FLAG
       0119     C0D0 81 55                    CMPA   #$55                                  CHECK FOR THE WARM START FLAG
       0120     C0D2 26 0A                    BNE    NOWARM                                BRANCH IF NO WARM START
       0121     C0D4 9E 72                    LDX    RSTVEC                                GET THE SYSTEM RESET VECTOR
       0122     C0D6 A6 84                    LDA    ,X                                    GET THE FIRST BYTE POINTED TO BY THE RESET VECTOR
       0123     C0D8 81 12                    CMPA   #$12                                  IS IT A NOP?
       0124     C0DA 10 27 00 AE              LBEQ   LC18C                                 DON'T COPY ROM TO RAM, ETC.
       0125     C0DE 7F FF A0        NOWARM   CLR    MMUREG                                PUT BLOCK 6.0 (128K RAM) OR BLOCK 0.0 (512K RAM) INTO CPU BLOCK 0
       0126     C0E1 96 71                    LDA    RSTFLG
       0127     C0E3 81 55                    CMPA   #$55                                  CHECK FOT THE WARM START FLAG
       0128     C0E5 26 0A                    BNE    LC0F1                                 BRANCH IF NO WARM START
       0129     C0E7 9E 72                    LDX    RSTVEC                                POINT X TO THE WARM START CODE
       0130     C0E9 A6 84                    LDA    ,X                                    GET THE FIRST BYTE OF THE WARM START CODE
       0131     C0EB 81 12                    CMPA   #$12                                  IS IT A NOP?
       0132     C0ED 10 27 00 9B              LBEQ   LC18C                                 DON'T COPY ROM TO RAM IF IT IS.
       0133     C0F1 86 38           LC0F1    LDA    #BLOCK7.0                             GET BACK BLOCK 7.0
       0134     C0F3 B7 FF A0                 STA    MMUREG                                PUT IT BACK INTO CPU BLOCK 0
       0135     C0F6 8E C0 00        LC0F6    LDX    #DOSBAS                               POINT TO THE END OF THE COLOR BASIC ROM
       0136     C0F9 10 8E 80 00              LDY    #EXBAS                                POINT TO START OF EXTENDED BASIC
       0137     C0FD 17 00 AA                 LBSR   LC1AA                                 MOVE COLOR AND EXTENDED BASIC ROM TO RAM
       0138
       0139                          * PATCH COLOR AND EXTENDED BASIC
       0140     C100 31 8D 01 52              LEAY PATCHTAB,PC                        POINT Y TO THE PATCH TABLE
       0141     C104 A6 A0                    LDA   ,Y+                               GET THE NUMBER OF PATCHES TO BE MADE
       0142     C106 34 02           LC106    PSHS A                                  SAVE THE PATCH COUNTER
       0143     C108 AE A1                    LDX   ,Y++                              GET THE ADDRESS WHERE THE PATCH IS TO BE PLACED
       0144     C10A E6 A0                    LDB   ,Y+                               GET THE NUMBER OB BYTES IN THE PATCH
       0145     C10C A6 A0           LC10C    LDA   ,Y+                               GET A BYTE
       0146     C10E A7 80                    STA   ,X+                               PATCH THE CODE IN RAM
       0147     C110 5A                       DECB                                    BUMP THE COUNTER
       0148     C111 26 F9                    BNE   LC10C                             LOOP UNTIL DONE
       0149     C113 35 02                    PULS A                                  RESTORE THE PATCH COUNTER
       0150     C115 4A                       DECA
       0151     C116 26 EE                    BNE   LC106                             LOOP UNTIL ALL PATCHES DONE
       0152     C118 7F FF DE                 CLR   SAM+30                            ENABLE THE ROM MODE
       0153     C11B 86 C8                    LDA   #COCO+MMUEN+MC3                   ENABLE 16K INTERNAL, 16K EXTERNAL ROM
       0154     C11D B7 FF 90                 STA   INIT0
       0155     C120 FC C0 00                 LDD   DOSBAS                            GET THE FIRST TWO BYTES OF AN EXTERNAL ROM, IF ANY
       0156                          * CHECK FOR A 'DK' AT $C000 (DISK BASIC) - THIS SHOULD BE CMPD
       0157     C123 81 44                    CMPA #'D'
       0158     C125 26 10                    BNE   LC137
       0159     C127 C1 4B                    CMPB #'K'
       0160     C129 26 0C                    BNE   LC137
       0161                          * COPY THE DISK BASIC ROM INTO RAM
       0162     C12B 8E E0 00                 LDX   #SUPERVAR                         POINT TO THE END OF THE DISK BASIC ROM
       0163     C12E 10 8E C0 00              LDY   #DOSBAS                           POINT TO THE START OF THE DISK BASIC ROM
       0164     C132 8D 76                    BSR   LC1AA                             COPY ROM INTO RAM
       0165     C134 17 01 EB                 LBSR LC322                              PATCH DISK BASIC
       0166     C137 7F FF DE        LC137    CLR   SAM+30                            ENABLE ROM MODE
       0167     C13A 86 CA                    LDA   #COCO+MMUEN+MC3+MC1
       0168     C13C B7 FF 90                 STA   INIT0                             ENABLE 32K INTERNAL ROM
       0169
       0170                          * COPY SUPER EXTENDED BASIC FROM ROM TO RAM
       0171     C13F 8E FE 00                 LDX   #H.CRSLOC                              POINT TO THE END OF ENHANCED BASIC ROM
       0172     C142 10 8E E0 00              LDY   #SUPERVAR                              POINT TO THE START OF ENHANCED BASIC ROM
       0173     C146 8D 62                    BSR   LC1AA                                  COPY ROM TO RAM
       0174     C148 17 00 93                 LBSR LC1DE                                   PATCH THE ENHANCEMENTS (MOVE THE AUTHORS' DECODED NAMES)
       0175     C14B 31 8D 02 0A              LEAY INTIMAGE,PC                             POINT X TO THE INTERRUPT JUMP VECTOR IMAGES
       0176     C14F 8E FE ED                 LDX   #INT.FLAG                              DESTINATION FOR INTERRUPT VECTORS
       0177     C152 C6 13                    LDB   #19                                    6 INTERRUPT JUMP ADDRESSES * 3 BYTES/JUMP ADDRESS + VALIDITY FLAG
       0178     C154 17 00 7F                 LBSR MOVE.XY                                 COPY THE INTERRUPT JUMP VECTORS
       0179     C157 7F FF DF                 CLR   SAM+31                                 ENABLE THE RAM MODE
       0180     C15A 6D E4                    TST   ,S                                     WAS THE F1 KEY DEPRESSED?
       0181     C15C 27 22                    BEQ   LC180                                  NO
       0182     C15E 8E E0 32                 LDX   #IM.TEXT                               TEXT MODE VIDEO CONTROL REGISTER IMAGES IN SUPER EXTENDED BASIC
       0183     C161 C6 03                    LDB   #$03                                   THREE SETS OF IMAGES
       0184     C163 30 01                    LEAX $01,X                                   SKIP PAST THE $FF90 TEXT MODE IMAGE
       0185     C165 A6 84           LC165    LDA   ,X                                     GET THE INIT0 IMAGE
       0186     C167 8A 20                    ORA   #$20                                   FORCE THE ALTERNATE COLOR SET
       0187     C169 A7 84                    STA   ,X                                     RE-SAVE THE INIT0 IMAGE
       0188     C16B 30 09                    LEAX $09,X                                   SKIP TO NEXT SET OF IMAGES
       0189     C16D 5A                       DECB                                         BUMP COUNTER
       0190     C16E 26 F5                    BNE   LC165                                  LOOP UNTIL DONE
       0191     C170 C6 02                    LDB   #$02                                   TWO SETS OF GRAPHICS MODE IMAGES
       0192     C172 8E E0 70                 LDX   #IM.GRAPH                              GRAPHICS MODE VIDEO CONTROL REGISTER IMAGES IN SUPER EXTENDED BASIC




                                                                                     B2
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                                                APPENDIX B                                                                 ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                    DISASSEMBLY OF SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 1.1                                     REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




       0193     C175 A6 84             LC175    LDA   ,X                                    GET THE INIT0 IMAGE
       0194     C177 8A 20                      ORA   #$20                                  FORCE THE ALTERNATE COLOR SET
       0195     C179 A7 84                      STA   ,X                                    RE-SAVE THE INIT0 IMAGE
       0196     C17B 30 09                      LEAX $09,X                                  SKIP TO NEXT SET OF IMAGES
       0197     C17D 5A                         DECB                                        BUMP COUNTER
       0198     C17E 26 F5                      BNE   LC175                                 LOOP UNTIL DONE
       0199                            * CLEAR THE LO-RES VIDEO SCREEN
       0200     C180 8E 04 00          LC180    LDX   #VIDRAM                               POINT X TO THE START OF THE VIDEO DISPLAY
       0201     C183 86 60                      LDA   #$60                                  GREEN SPACE
       0202     C185 A7 80             LC185    STA   ,X+                                   PUT A GREEN SPACE ON THE LO-RES SCREEN
       0203     C187 8C 06 00                   CMPX #VIDRAM+512                            AT THE END OF THE DISPLAY?
       0204     C18A 25 F9                      BCS   LC185                                 NO
       0205     C18C 86 CE             LC18C    LDA   #COCO+MMUEN+MC3+MC2+MC1
       0206     C18E B7 FF 90                   STA   INIT0                                 ENABLE THE NORMAL SPARE CHIP SELECT (EXTERNAL $FF40)
       0207     C191 6D E4                      TST   ,S                                    WAS THE F1 KEY DEPRESSED?
       0208     C193 27 05                      BEQ   LC19A                                 NO
       0209     C195 86 20                      LDA   #$20                                  ALTERNATE COLOR SET FLAG
       0210     C197 B7 FF 98                   STA   VIDEOREG                              FORCE THE ALTERNATE COLOR SET
       0211     C19A 8E FF B0          LC19A    LDX   #PALETREG                             POINT X TO THE PALETTE REGISTERS
       0212     C19D 31 8D 00 95                LEAY PALIMAGE,PC                            POINT Y TO THE PALETTE REGISTER IMAGES
       0213     C1A1 C6 10                      LDB   #16                                   16 PALETTE REGISTERS
       0214     C1A3 8D 31                      BSR   MOVE.XY                               FILL THE PALETTE REGISTERS FROM THEIR IMAGE
       0215     C1A5 32 61                      LEAS $01,S                                  REMOVE THE TEMPORARY STORAGE BYTE
       0216     C1A7 7E A0 27                   JMP   RESVEC                                JUMP TO THE COCO 2 RESET ENTRY POINT
       0217
       0218                            * COPY DATA POINTED TO BY (Y) FROM ROM TO RAM UNTIL THE ADDRESS IN
       0219                            * (X) IS REACHED; PSHING AND PULING FROM U OR S WOULD BE MUCH MORE EFFICIENT
       0220     C1AA BF 5F 02          LC1AA    STX   L5F02                             TEMPORARILY SAVE THE END OF COPY ADDRESS
       0221     C1AD 10 FF 5F 00                STS   L5F00                             AND THE STACK POINTER
       0222     C1B1 7F FF DE          LC1B1    CLR   SAM+30                            ENABLE THE ROM
       0223     C1B4 EC A4                      LDD   ,Y
       0224     C1B6 AE 22                      LDX   $02,Y
       0225     C1B8 EE 24                      LDU   $04,Y
       0226     C1BA 10 EE 26                   LDS   $06,Y
       0227     C1BD 7F FF DF                   CLR   SAM+31                            DISABLE THE ROM
       0228     C1C0 ED A4                      STD   ,Y                                NOW SAVE THE DATA FROM THE CPU REGISTERS INTO ROM
       0229     C1C2 AF 22                      STX   $02,Y
       0230     C1C4 EF 24                      STU   $04,Y
       0231     C1C6 10 EF 26                   STS   $06,Y
       0232     C1C9 31 28                      LEAY $08,Y                              MOVE THE COPY POINTER UP 8 BYTES
       0233     C1CB 10 BC 5F 02                CMPY L5F02                              CHECK FOR END OF THE COPY RANGE
       0234     C1CF 25 E0                      BCS   LC1B1
       0235     C1D1 10 FE 5F 00                LDS   L5F00                             RESTORE THE STACK
       0236     C1D5 39                         RTS
       0237
       0238                            * MOVE ACCB BYTES FROM (Y) TO (X)
       0239     C1D6 A6 A0             MOVE.XY LDA    ,Y+
       0240     C1D8 A7 80                      STA   ,X+
       0241     C1DA 5A                         DECB
       0242     C1DB 26 F9                      BNE   MOVE.XY
       0243     C1DD 39                         RTS
       0244
       0245                            * DECODE AND COPY THE AUTHOR'S NAMES INTO RAM
       0246     C1DE 8E F7 1B          LC1DE    LDX   #AUTHORMS                             POINT X TO THE DESTINATION FOR THE AUTHORS' NAMES
       0247     C1E1 31 8D 01 28                LEAY LC30D,PC                               POINT Y TO THE CODED NAMES OF THE AUTHORS
       0248     C1E5 C6 15                      LDB   #21                                   21 BYTES IN THE AUTHORS' NAMES
       0249     C1E7 A6 A0             LC1E7    LDA   ,Y+                                   GET A CODED BYTE OF THE AUTHORS' NAMES
       0250     C1E9 43                         COMA                                        DECODE THE BYTE
       0251     C1EA A7 80                      STA   ,X+                                   SAVE THE UNCODED BYTE
       0252     C1EC 5A                         DECB                                        BUMP COUNTER DOWN ONE.
       0253     C1ED 26 F8                      BNE   LC1E7                                 LOOP UNTIL ALL BYTES DECODED
       0254     C1EF 39                         RTS
       0255
       0256                            * THIS IS THE CODE WHICH DISPLAYS THE HIGH RESOLUTION PICTURE OF THE
       0257                            * AUTHORS OF SUPER EXTENDED BASIC
       0258     C1F0 4F                LC1F0    CLRA
       0259     C1F1 B7 FE ED                   STA   INT.FLAG                          SET THE INTERRUPT FLAG TO NOT VALID (NOT INITIALIZED)
       0260     C1F4 97 71                      STA   RSTFLG                            FORCE THE ROMS TO BE COPIED INTO RAM
       0261     C1F6 B7 FF DE                   STA   SAM+30                            ENABLE THE ROMS
       0262     C1F9 C6 09                      LDB   #$09
       0263     C1FB F7 FF BA                   STB   PALETREG+10
       0264     C1FE C6 3F                      LDB   #63                               WHITE (COMPOSITE AND RGB)
       0265     C200 F7 FF BB                   STB   PALETREG+11
       0266     C203 8E C4 05                   LDX   #AUTHPIC                          POINT X TO THE AUTHORS' PICTURE DATA
       0267     C206 10 8E 0E 00                LDY   #$0E00                            DESTINATION OF THE AUTHORS' PICTURE DATA
       0268     C20A EC 81             LC20A    LDD   ,X++
       0269     C20C EE 81                      LDU   ,X++                              GET FOUR BYTES OF PICTURE DATA
       0270     C20E ED A1                      STD   ,Y++
       0271     C210 EF A1                      STU   ,Y++                              PUT THE DATA ON THE HI-RES SCREEN
       0272     C212 8C DC 05                   CMPX #LDC05                             AT THE END OF THE PICTURE DATA?
       0273     C215 25 F3                      BCS   LC20A                             NO
       0274     C217 86 F9                      LDA   #$F9                              256x192 GREEN/BUFF COCO 2 HI-RES GRAPHICS MODE
       0275     C219 B7 FF 22                   STA   PIA1+2                            PROGRAM THE GRAPHICS MODE INTO THE PIA AND THE GIME CHIP
       0276     C21C 4F                         CLRA
       0277     C21D 8E FF C0                   LDX   #SAM                              POINT X TO THE SAM REGISTERS
       0278     C220 A7 84                      STA   ,X
       0279     C222 A7 03                      STA   $03,X
       0280     C224 A7 05                      STA   $05,X                             PROGRAM THE SAM REGISTERS FOR HI-RES MODE
       0281     C226 A7 07                      STA   $07,X
       0282     C228 A7 09                      STA   $09,X
       0283     C22A A7 0B             LC22A    STA   $0B,X                             SET THE VIDEO DISPLAY PAGE TO $E00
       0284     C22C 20 FE             WAITLOOP BRA   WAITLOOP                          ENDLESS WAIT LOOP
       0285
       0286                            * IMAGES OF THE VIDEO CONTROL REGISTERS (FF98-FF9F)
       0287     C22E 00 00 00 00 0F E0 VIDIMAGE FCB   $00,$00,$00,$00,$0F,$E0
       0288     C234 00 00                      FCB   $00,$00




                                                                                      B3
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                                                  APPENDIX B                                         ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                      DISASSEMBLY OF SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 1.1             REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




       0289
       0290                            * IMAGES OF THE PALETTE REGISTERS (FFB0-FFBF)
       0291     C236 12 24 0B 07 3F 1F PALIMAGE FCB   18,36,11,7,63,31
       0292     C23C 09 26 00 12 00 3F          FCB   9,38,0,18,0,63
       0293     C242 00 12 00 26                FCB   0,18,0,38
       0294
       0295                            * IMAGES OF THE MMU REGISTERS (FFA0-FFAF)
       0296
       0297                            * TASK REGISTER 0
       0298     C246 38 39 34          MMUIMAGE FCB   BLOCK7.0,BLOCK7.1,BLOCK6.4
       0299     C249 3B 3C 3D                         BLOCK7.3,BLOCK7.4,BLOCK7.5
       0300     C24C 3E 3F                            BLOCK7.6,BLOCK7.7
       0301
       0302                            * TASK REGISTER 1
       0303     C24E 38 30 31          LC24E    FCB   BLOCK 7.0,BLOCK6.0,BLOCK6.1
       0304     C251 32 33 3D                         BLOCK6.2,BLOCK6.3,BLOCK7.5
       0305     C254 35 3F                            BLOCK6.5,BLOCK7.7
       0306
       0307                            * TABLE OF PATCHES TO BE MADE TO COLOR AND EXTENDED BASIC. THE FIRST BYTE
       0308                            * IS THE TOTAL NUMBER OF PATCHES TO BE MADE FOLLOWED BY THE CODE FOR ALL OF
       0309                            * THE PATCHES. THE INDIVIDUAL PATCHES HAVE A THREE BYTE HEADER CONSISTING OF THE
       0310                            * ADDRESS WHERE THE PATCH IS TO GO AND THE NUMBER OF BYTES IN THE PATCH.
       0311
       0312     C256 1B                PATCHTAB FCB   27                                      NUMBER OF PATCHES
       0313
       0314                            * PATCH 1 - ENABLE EXTENDED BASIC WARM START CODE
       0315     C257 80 C0             LC257    FDB   PATCH1                            $80C0
       0316     C259 01                LC259    FCB   $01
       0317     C25A 12                LC25A    NOP
       0318
       0319                            * PATCH 2 - CRUNCH A TOKEN
       0320     C25B B8 D4             LC25B    FDB   PATCH2                                  $B8D4
       0321     C25D 03                LC25D    FCB   $03
       0322     C25E 7E E1 38          LC25E    JMP   ALINK2                                  $E138
       0323
       0324                            * PATCH 3 - UNCRUNCH A TOKEN
       0325     C261 B7 F3             LC261    FDB   PATCH3                                  $B7F3
       0326     C263 03                LC263    FCB   $03
       0327     C264 7E E1 72          LC264    JMP   ALINK3                                  $E172
       0328
       0329                            * PATCH 4 - EXTENDED BASIC'S COMMAND INTERPRETATION LOOP
       0330     C267 81 50             LC267    FDB   PATCH4                            $8150
       0331     C269 04                LC269    FCB   $04
       0332     C26A 7E E1 92          LC26A    JMP   ALINK4                            $E192
       0333     C26D 12                         NOP
       0334
       0335                            * PATCH 5 - EXTENDED BASIC'S SECONDARY COMMAND HANDLER
       0336     C26E 81 6C             LC26E    FDB   PATCH5                            $816C
       0337     C270 04                LC270    FCB   $04
       0338     C271 7E E1 A6          LC271    JMP   ALINK5                            $E1A6
       0339     C274 12                         NOP
       0340
       0341                            ** PATCHES 6 - 11 MODIFY THE WAY A '&H' VARIABLE IS PROCESSED
       0342                            * PATCH 6
       0343     C275 88 34             LC275    FDB   PATCH6                            $8834
       0344     C277 12                LC277    FCB   $12
       0345     C278 7E E3 F8          LC278    JMP   ALINK6A                           $E3F8
       0346     C27B 0F 51                      CLR   FPA0+1
       0347     C27D 0F 52                      CLR   FPA0+2
       0348     C27F 0F 53                      CLR   FPA0+3
       0349     C281 20 B0                      BRA   ((PATCH7+4)-(PATCH6+9))
       0350     C283 0F 50                      CLR   FPA0
       0351     C285 20 CF                      BRA   (PATCH6A-(PATCH6+13))
       0352     C287 7E E4 0C                   JMP   ALINK6B
       0353
       0354                            * PATCH 7
       0355     C28A 87 EB             LC28A    FDB   PATCH7                                  $87EB
       0356     C28C 07                LC28C    FCB   $07
       0357     C28D 20 4A             LC28D    BRA   ((PATCH6+3)-PATCH7)
       0358     C28F 12                         NOP
       0359     C290 39                         RTS
       0360     C291 8E 00 51                   LDX   #FPA0+1
       0361
       0362                            * PATCH 8
       0363     C294 88 0C             LC294    FDB   PATCH8                                  $880C
       0364     C296 02                LC296    FCB   $02
       0365     C297 20 35             LC297    BRA   ((PATCH6+15)-PATCH8)
       0366
       0367                            * PATCH 9
       0368     C299 88 26             LC299    FDB   PATCH9                                  $8826
       0369     C29B 02                LC29B    FCB   $02
       0370     C29C 25 17             LC29C    BCS   ((PATCH6+11)-PATCH9)
       0371
       0372                            * PATCH 10
       0373     C29E 87 E7             LC29E    FDB   PATCH10                                 $87E7
       0374     C2A0 02                LC2A0    FCB   $02
       0375     C2A1 26 05             LC2A1    BNE   ((PATCH7+3)-PATCH10)
       0376
       0377                            * PATCH 11 - NEEDED BECAUSE PATCH 5 REMOVED AN RTS WHICH THIS ROUTINED USED
       0378     C2A3 88 6A             LC2A3    FDB   PATCH11                           $886A
       0379     C2A5 02                LC2A5    FCB   $02
       0380     C2A6 26 82             LC2A6    BNE   ((PATCH7+3)-PATCH11)
       0381
       0382                            * PATCH 12 - EX BASIC'S COPYRIGHT MESSAGE
       0383     C2A8 80 B2             LC2A8    FDB   PATCH12                                 $80B2
       0384     C2AA 03                LC2AA    FCB   $03




                                                                                        B4
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                                                  APPENDIX B                                                               ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                      DISASSEMBLY OF SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 1.1                                   REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




       0385     C2AB 7E E2 88          LC2AB   JMP    ALINK12                                 $E288
       0386
       0387                            * PATCH 13 - REMOVE ONE CR FROM ONE OF EX BAS COPYRIGHT MESSAGE
       0388     C2AE 81 3A             LC2AE    FDB   PATCH13                           $813A
       0389     C2B0 01                LC2B0    FCB   $01
       0390     C2B1 00                LC2B1    FCB   $00
       0391
       0392                            * PATCH 14 - ADD ONTO END OF EX BAS GRAPHICS INITIALIZATION ROUTINE
       0393     C2B2 97 03             LC2B2    FDB   PATCH14                           $9703
       0394     C2B4 03                LC2B4    FCB   $03
       0395     C2B5 7E E3 89          LC2B5    JMP   ALINK14                           $E389
       0396
       0397                            * PATCH 15 - BREAK CHECK
       0398     C2B8 AD F0             LC2B8    FDB   PATCH15                                 $ADF0
       0399     C2BA 04                LC2BA    FCB   $04
       0400     C2BB 7E E4 29          LC2BB    JMP   ALINK15                                 $E429
       0401     C2BE 12                         NOP
       0402
       0403                            * PATCH 16 - CHECK FOR BREAK KEY ON BASIC'S LINE INPUT
       0404     C2BF A3 C2             LC2BF    FDB   PATCH16                           $A3C2
       0405     C2C1 04                LC2C1    FCB   $04
       0406     C2C2 7E E4 13          LC2C2    JMP   ALINK16                           $E413
       0407     C2C5 12                         NOP
       0408
       0409                            * PATCH 17 - PATCH INPUT TO RESPOND TO ON BRK
       0410     C2C6 B0 3D             LC2C6    FDB   PATCH17+1                               $B03C+1
       0411     C2C8 02                LC2C8    FCB   $02
       0412     C2C9 E5 32             LC2C9    FDB   ALINK17                                 $E532
       0413
       0414                            * PATCH 18 - 'ON' COMMAND
       0415     C2CB AF 42             LC2CB    FDB   PATCH18                                 $AF42
       0416     C2CD 03                LC2CD    FCB   $03
       0417     C2CE 7E E3 B4          LC2CE    JMP   ALINK18                                 $E3B4
       0418
       0419                            * PATCH 19 - END OF 'NEW' COMMAND
       0420     C2D1 AD 3F             LC2D1    FDB   PATCH19                                 $AD3F
       0421     C2D3 04                LC2D3    FCB   $04
       0422     C2D4 7E E4 D0          LC2D4    JMP   ALINK19                                 $E4D0
       0423     C2D7 12                         NOP
       0424
       0425                            * PATCH 20 - ERROR SERVICING ROUTINE
       0426     C2D8 AC 46             LC2D8    FDB   PATCH20                                 $AC46
       0427     C2DA 03                LC2DA    FCB   $03
       0428     C2DB 7E E4 70          LC2DB    JMP   ALINK20                                 $E470
       0429
       0430                            * PATCH 21 - BASIC'S MAIN LOOP IN THE DIRECT MODE
       0431     C2DE AC 73             LC2DE    FDB   PATCH21                           $AC73
       0432     C2E0 03                LC2E0    FCB   $03
       0433     C2E1 7E E5 02          LC2E1    JMP   ALINK21                           $E502
       0434
       0435                            * PATCH 22
       0436     C2E4 A3 0A             LC2E4    FDB   PATCH22                                 $A30A
       0437     C2E6 03                LC2E6    FCB   $03
       0438     C2E7 7E 8C 37          LC2E7    JMP   PATCH22A                                $8C37
       0439
       0440                            * PATCH 23 - 'CLS' ROUTINE
       0441     C2EA A9 10             LC2EA    FDB   PATCH23                                 $A910
       0442     C2EC 03                LC2EC    FCB   $03
       0443     C2ED 7E 8C 46          LC2ED    JMP   PATCH23A                                $8C46
       0444
       0445                            * PATCH 24 - CURSOR BLINK
       0446     C2F0 A1 B1             LC2F0    FDB   PATCH24                                 $A1B1
       0447     C2F2 08                LC2F2    FCB   $08
       0448     C2F3 7E A0 CE          LC2F3    JMP   LA0CE                                   $A0CE
       0449     C2F6 12                         NOP
       0450     C2F7 12                         NOP
       0451     C2F8 12                         NOP
       0452     C2F9 12                         NOP
       0453     C2FA 12                         NOP
       0454
       0455                            * PATCH 25 - PRINT @ COMMAND
       0456     C2FB B9 02             LC2FB    FDB   PATCH25                                 $B902
       0457     C2FD 03                LC2FD    FCB   $03
       0458     C2FE 7E F8 C3          LC2FE    JMP   ALINK25                                 $F8C3
       0459
       0460                            * PATCH 26
       0461     C301 B9 5C             LC301    FDB   PATCH26                                 $B95C
       0462     C303 03                LC303    FCB   $03
       0463     C304 7E F8 A3          LC304    JMP   ALINK26                                 $F8A3
       0464
       0465                            * PATCH 27 - GET A BASIC INPUT LINE
       0466     C307 A3 8D             LC307    FDB   PATCH27                                 $A38D
       0467     C309 03                LC309    FCB   $03
       0468     C30A 7E F7 57          LC30A    JMP   ALINK27                                 $F757
       0469
       0470                            * THESE DATA ARE THE NAMES OF THE AUTHORS IN COMPLEMENTED ASCII (T.Harris & T.Earles,CR,0)
       0471     C30D AB D1 B7 9E 8D 8D LC30D    FCB   $AB,$D1,$B7,$9E,$8D,$8D
       0472     C313 96 8C DF D9 DF AB          FCB   $96,$8C,$DF,$D9,$DF,$AB
       0473     C319 D1 BA 9E 8D 93 9A          FCB   $D1,$BA,$9E,$8D,$93,$9A
       0474     C31F 8C F2 FF                   FCB   $8C,$F2,$FF
       0475
       0476     C322 B6 C0 04          LC322   LDA    DCNVEC                                  LOOK FOR THE MS BYTE OF THE ADDRESS OF DSKCON
       0477     C325 81 D6                     CMPA   #$D6                                    IF IT IS D6, THEN WE HAVE DISK BASIC 1.0
       0478     C327 26 0B                     BNE    LC334                                   BRANCH IF DISK BASIC 1.1
       0479     C329 8E C0 C6                  LDX    #PATCH28                                POINT X TO DISK BASIC 1.0 PATCH ADDRESS ($C0C6)
       0480     C32C 31 8D 00 25               LEAY   LC355,PC                                POINT Y TO THE PATCH DATA




                                                                                        B5
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                                                APPENDIX B                                                                  ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                    DISASSEMBLY OF SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 1.1                                      REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




       0481     C330 E6 A0                      LDB   ,Y+                                   GET THE NUMBER OF BYTES TO PATCH
       0482     C332 20 15                      BRA   LC349
       0483     C334 8E C8 B4          LC334    LDX   #PATCH30                              POINT X TO DISK BASIC 1.1 KEYBOARD PATCH ($C8B4)
       0484     C337 86 12                      LDA   #$12                                  OP CODE OF A NOP INSTRUCTION
       0485     C339 C6 0B                      LDB   #11                                   PATCH 11 BYTES
       0486     C33B A7 80             LC33B    STA   ,X+                                   STORE A NOP
       0487     C33D 5A                         DECB                                        DECREMENT COUNTER
       0488     C33E 26 FB                      BNE   LC33B                                 LOOP UNTIL DONE
       0489     C340 8E C0 D9                   LDX   #PATCH29                              POINT X TO DISK BASIC 1.1 PATCH ADDRESS ($C0D9)
       0490     C343 31 8D 00 0A                LEAY LC351,PC                               POINT Y TO THE PATCH DATA
       0491     C347 E6 A0                      LDB   ,Y+                                   GET THE NUMBER OF BYTES TO PATCH
       0492     C349 A6 A0             LC349    LDA   ,Y+                                   GET A PATCH BYTE
       0493     C34B A7 80                      STA   ,X+                                   STORE THE PATCH BYTE
       0494     C34D 5A                         DECB                                        DECREMENT THE PATCH COUNTER
       0495     C34E 26 F9                      BNE   LC349                                 LOOP UNTIL DONE
       0496     C350 39                         RTS
       0497                            * DISK BASIC ROM PATCHES (COPYRIGHT MESSAGE)
       0498     C351 03                LC351    FCB   $03
       0499     C352 7E E2 9D          LC352    JMP   ALINK29                               $E29D
       0500     C355 03                LC355    FCB   $03
       0501     C356 7E E2 97          LC356    JMP   ALINK28                               $E297
       0502
       0503                            * INTERRUPT VECTOR IMAGES
       0504                            * THESE LBRAs WILL LINK TO BASIC'S RAM INTERRUPT VECTORS AT $100
       0505     C359 55                INTIMAGE FCB   $55                               VALIDITY FLAG (INTERRUPT VECTORS VALID/INVALID)
       0506     C35A 16 02 0F          LC35A    LBRA (INTIMAGE+1)-(INT.JUMP)+SW3VEC
       0507     C35D 16 02 0F                   LBRA (INTIMAGE+1)-(INT.JUMP)+SW2VEC
       0508     C360 16 02 18                   LBRA (INTIMAGE+1)-(INT.JUMP)+FRQVEC
       0509     C363 16 02 12                   LBRA (INTIMAGE+1)-(INT.JUMP)+IRQVEC
       0510     C366 16 02 09                   LBRA (INTIMAGE+1)-(INT.JUMP)+SWIVEC
       0511     C369 16 02 09                   LBRA (INTIMAGE+1)-(INT.JUMP)+NMIVEC
       0512
       0513                            * END OF THE DATA COPIED INTO RAM
       0514     C36C                   ENDMOVE RMB    153                                   UNUSED
       0515
       0516     C405                   AUTHPIC RMB     $1800                                COCO 2 COMPATIBLE DIGITIZED PICTURE OF THE AUTHORS
       0517
       0518     DC05                   LDC05   RMB     1019                                 UNUSED
       0519
       0520                            * THE NEW SUPER EXTENDED BASIC CODE STARTS HERE
       0521
       0522                            * THE CODE FROM THIS POINT TO $FDFF IS THE ENHANCEMENTS ADDED TO THE 'OLD' COCO BASIC
       0523                            * TO SUPPORT THE NEW FEATURES AVAILABLE IN THE COCO 3.
       0524
       0525                            * THESE ARE THE ONLY 'SANCTIONED BY TANDY' LEGAL ENTRY POINTS INTO THE SUPER
       0526                            * EXTENDED (ENHANCED) PORTION OF THE BASIC ROM
       0527
       0528     E000 00 E6             SUPERVAR FDB    HRMODE                               ADDRESS OF DIRECT PAGE VARIABLES UNIQUE TO ENHANCED BASIC
       0529     E002 E0 19             PRGTEXT FDB     SETTEXT                              SET THE VIDEO CONTROL REGISTERS TO DISPLAY HI-RES TEXT
       0530     E004 E0 4D             PRGGRAPH FDB    SETGRAPH                             SET THE VIDEO CONTROL REGISTERS TO DISPLAY HI-RES GRAPHICS
       0531     E006 E0 97             PRGMMU   FDB    SETMMU                               PROGRAM THE MMU REGISTERS FROM THEIR IMAGES
       0532     E008 E0 B5             GETTEXT FDB     SELTEXT                              PLACE THE HI-RES TEXT SCREEN INTO LOGICAL BLOCK 1
       0533     E00A E0 A1             GETBLOK0 FDB    SELBLOK0                             PLACE THE BLOCK NUMBER IN ACCB INTO LOGICAL BLOCK 0
       0534     E00C E0 FF             GETTASK0 FDB    SELTASK0                             RE-SELECT TASK REGISTER 0
       0535     E00E E1 19             GETTASK1 FDB    SELTASK1                             SELECT TASK REGISTER 1
       0536     E010 7E A0 5E          LE010    JMP    EXECCART                             EXECUTE A ROM CARTRIDGE ($A05E)
       0537     E013 00 00             SPARE0   FDB    $0000                                UNDEFINED
       0538     E015 00 00             SPARE1   FDB    $0000                                UNDEFINED
       0539     E017 00 00             SPARE2   FDB    $0000                                UNDEFINED
       0540
       0541                            * SET UP THE VIDEO CONTROL REGISTERS ACCORDING TO THE SELECTED WIDTH
       0542     E019 34 32             SETTEXT PSHS Y,X,A
       0543     E01B 10 21 1F E1                LBRN RAMLINK                            RAM HOOK
       0544     E01F 8E E0 32                   LDX   #IM.TEXT                          POINT TO THE 32 COLUMN VIDEO MODE REGISTER TABLE
       0545     E022 96 E7                      LDA   HRWIDTH                           CHECK THE HI-RES TEXT MODE
       0546     E024 27 5C                      BEQ   SETVIDEO                          BRANCH IF 32 COLUMN MODE
       0547     E026 8E E0 3B                   LDX   #LE03B                            POINT TO THE 40 COLUMN VIDEO MODE REGISTER TABLE
       0548     E029 81 01                      CMPA #$01                               VIDEO MODE WIDTH SET TO 40 COLUMN?
       0549     E02B 27 55                      BEQ   SETVIDEO                          YES
       0550     E02D 8E E0 44                   LDX   #LE044                            POINT TO THE 80 COLUMN VIDEO MODE REGISTER TABLE
       0551     E030 20 50                      BRA   SETVIDEO
       0552
       0553                            * VIDEO MODE REGISTER IMAGES FOR THE HI-RES TEXT MODES
       0554                            * INITIAL VIDEO CONTROL REGISTER DATA FOR 32 COLUMN COCO COMPATIBLE MODE
       0555     E032 CC                IM.TEXT FCB    COCO+MMUEN+MC3+MC2                FF90
       0556     E033 00 00 00 00 0F E0 LE033    FCB   $00,$00,$00,$00,$0F,$E0           FF98
       0557     E039 00 00                      FCB   $00,$00
       0558                            * INITIAL VIDEO CONTROL REGISTER DATA FOR 40 COLUMN HI-RES MODE
       0559     E03B 4C                LE03B    FCB   MMUEN+MC3+MC2                     FF90
       0560     E03C 03 05 12 00 00 D8 LE03C    FCB   $03,$05,$12,$00,$00,$D8           FF98
       0561     E042 00 00                      FCB   $00,$00
       0562                            * INITIAL VIDEO CONTROL REGISTER DATA FOR 80 COLUMN HI-RES MODE
       0563     E044 4C                LE044    FCB   MMUEN+MC3+MC2                     FF90
       0564     E045 03 15 12 00 00 D8 LE045    FCB   $03,$15,$12,$00,$00,$D8           FF98
       0565     E04B 00 00                      FCB   $00,$00
       0566
       0567     E04D 34 32             SETGRAPH PSHS   Y,X,A
       0568     E04F 10 21 1F AD                LBRN   RAMLINK                              RAM HOOK
       0569     E053 8E E0 70                   LDX    #IM.GRAPH                            POINT TO THE VIDEO MODE RAM IMAGE FOR HSCREEN MODES 1,2
       0570     E056 10 8E E0 6C                LDY    #RESTABLE                            POINT TO THE VIDEO RESOLUTION TABLE
       0571     E05A 96 E6                      LDA    HRMODE                               GET THE HI-RES GRAPHICS MODE
       0572     E05C 81 02                      CMPA   #$02                                 1 OR 2 ARE 40 COLUMN MODES
       0573     E05E 23 03                      BLS    LE063                                BRANCH IF 40 COLUMN TEXT MODE
       0574     E060 8E E0 79                   LDX    #LE079                               POINT TO THE VIDEO RAM IMAGE FOR 80 COLUMN MODE
       0575     E063 80 01             LE063    SUBA   #$01                                 ADJUST MODE NUMBERS TO START AT ZERO
       0576     E065 A6 A6                      LDA    A,Y                                  GRAB THE PROPER VIDEO RESOLUTION MODE




                                                                                      B6
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                                                APPENDIX B                                                               ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                    DISASSEMBLY OF SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 1.1                                   REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




       0577     E067 A7 02                     STA    $02,X                                 SAVE IT IN THE PROPER IMAGE
       0578     E069 7E E0 82                  JMP    SETVIDEO                              GO SET UP THE VIDEO REGISTERS
       0579
       0580                            * VIDEO RESOLUTION MODE REGISTER (FF99) DATA FOR HSCREEN MODES
       0581     E06C 15                RESTABLE FCB   $15                               320 PIXELS, 4 COLORS
       0582     E06D 1E                LE06D    FCB   $1E                               320 PIXELS, 16 COLORS
       0583     E06E 14                LE06E    FCB   $14                               640 PIXELS, 2 COLORS
       0584     E06F 1D                LE06F    FCB   $1D                               640 PIXELS, 4 COLORS
       0585
       0586                            * VIDEO MODE REGISTER IMAGES FOR THE HI-RES GRAPHICS MODES
       0587                            * VIDEO MODE REGISTER IMAGE FOR THE 320x192 GRAPHICS MODE
       0588     E070 4C                IM.GRAPH FCB   MMUEN+MC3+MC2                     FF90
       0589     E071 80 00 00 00 00 C0 LE071    FCB   $80,$00,$00,$00,$00,$C0           FF98
       0590     E077 00 00                      FCB   $00,$00
       0591                            * VIDEO MODE REGISTER IMAGE FOR THE 640x192 GRAPHICS MODE
       0592     E079 4C                LE079    FCB   MMUEN+MC3+MC2                     FF90
       0593     E07A 80 00 00 00 00 C0 LE07A    FCB   $80,$00,$00,$00,$00,$C0           FF98
       0594     E080 00 00                      FCB   $00,$00
       0595
       0596                            * PROGRAM INIT0 AND THE 8 VIDEO MODE REGISTERS
       0597                            * ENTER WITH X POINTING TO THE DATA TO PUT INTO THE REGISTERS
       0598     E082 A6 80             SETVIDEO LDA   ,X+                               GET THE FIRST BYTE
       0599     E084 B7 FF 90                   STA   INIT0                             AND PUT IT INTO INIT0
       0600     E087 10 8E FF 98                LDY   #VIDEOREG                         POINT TO THE VIDEO MODE REGISTERS
       0601     E08B A6 80             LE08B    LDA   ,X+                               GET A BYTE
       0602     E08D A7 A0                      STA   ,Y+                               AND STICK IT INTO THE VIDEO MODE REGISTER
       0603     E08F 10 8C FF A0                CMPY #MMUREG                            END OF THE VIDEO MODE REGISTERS?
       0604     E093 25 F6                      BCS   LE08B                             NO - KEEP STUFFING REGISTERS
       0605     E095 35 B2                      PULS A,X,Y,PC
       0606
       0607                            * PROGRAM THE MMU REGISTERS; ENTER WITH X POINTING TO THE DATA TO PLACE INTO THE MMU REGISTERS
       0608     E097 34 36             SETMMU   PSHS Y,X,B,A
       0609     E099 30 8D 00 44                LEAX IM.MMU,PC                          POINT TO THE RAM IMAGE OF THE MMU REGISTERS
       0610     E09D 8D 52                      BSR   LE0F1                             MOVE 16 BYTES INTO THE MMU REGISTERS
       0611     E09F 35 B6                      PULS A,B,X,Y,PC
       0612
       0613                            * PLACE A BLOCK INTO LOGICAL ADDRESS SPACE BLOCK 0.
       0614                            * ENTER WITH ACCB CONTAINING THE BLOCK NUMBER TO BE PLACED INTO THE LOGICAL ADDRESS SPACE
       0615                            * EXIT WITH BLOCK 7.0 REPLACED IN BLOCK 0 OF THE LOGICAL ADDRESS SPACE RAM IMAGE
       0616     E0A1 34 36             SELBLOK0 PSHS Y,X,B,A
       0617     E0A3 30 8D 00 3A                LEAX IM.MMU,PC                          POINT TO THE RAM IMAGE OF THE MMU REGISTERS
       0618     E0A7 34 10                      PSHS X                                  TEMP SAVE
       0619     E0A9 E7 84                      STB   ,X                                SAVE THE NEW BLOCK NUMBER IN LOGICAL ADDRESS SPACE BLOCK 0 (TR0)
       0620     E0AB 8D 44                      BSR   LE0F1                             COPY THE RAM IMAGE OF THE MMU REGISTERS INTO THE MMU REGISTERS
       0621     E0AD C6 38                      LDB   #BLOCK7.0                         GET BLOCK 7.0
       0622     E0AF 35 10                      PULS X                                  RESTORE THE MMU IMAGE POINTER
       0623     E0B1 E7 84                      STB   ,X                                RESTORE BLOCK 7.0 TO BLOCK 0 OF MMU RAM IMAGE
       0624     E0B3 35 B6                      PULS A,B,X,Y,PC
       0625
       0626                            * PLACE THE HI-RES TEXT SCREEN INTO LOGICAL ADDRESS SPACE BLOCK 1
       0627                            * EXIT WITH BLOCK 7.1 REPLACED INTO BLOCK 1 OF THE LOGICAL ADDRESS SPACE RAM IMAGE
       0628     E0B5 34 36             SELTEXT PSHS Y,X,B,A
       0629     E0B7 30 8D 00 26                LEAX IM.MMU,PC                          POINT TO THE RAM IMAGE OF THE MMU REGISTERS
       0630     E0BB 34 10                      PSHS X                                  TEMP SAVE
       0631     E0BD C6 36                      LDB   #BLOCK6.6                         GET THE BLOCK WHICH CONTAINS THE HI-RES TEXT SCREEN
       0632     E0BF E7 01                      STB   $01,X                             AND SAVE IT IN THE MMU IMAGE OF TASK REGISTER 0
       0633     E0C1 8D 2E                      BSR   LE0F1                             COPY THE RAM IMAGE OF THE MMU REGISTERS INTO THE MMU REGISTERS
       0634     E0C3 35 10                      PULS X                                  RESTORE THE MMU IMAGE PONTER
       0635     E0C5 C6 39                      LDB   #BLOCK7.1                         GET BLOCK 7.1 (BASIC'S NORMAL LOGICAL BLOCK 1)
       0636     E0C7 E7 01                      STB   $01,X                             AND SAVE IT IN THE MMU IMAGE
       0637     E0C9 35 B6                      PULS A,B,X,Y,PC
       0638
       0639     E0CB 34 36             LE0CB   PSHS   Y,X,B,A
       0640     E0CD 30 8D 00 10               LEAX   IM.MMU,PC                             POINT TO THE MMU RAM IMAGE
       0641     E0D1 34 10                     PSHS   X                                     TEMP SAVE
       0642     E0D3 C6 34                     LDB    #BLOCK6.4                             GET BLOCK 6.4
       0643     E0D5 E7 0E                     STB    14,X                                  AND SAVE IT IN LOGICAL BLOCK 6 OF TASK REGISTER 1
       0644     E0D7 8D 18                     BSR    LE0F1                                 COPY THE RAM IMAGE OF THE MMU REGISTERS INTO THE MMU REGISTERS
       0645     E0D9 35 10                     PULS   X                                     RESTORE MMU IMAGE POINTER
       0646     E0DB C6 35                     LDB    #BLOCK6.5                             GET THE 'NORMAL' BLOCK FOR TASK REGISTER 1, LOGICAL BLOCK 6
       0647     E0DD E7 0E                     STB    14,X                                  PUT IT BACK INTO TASK REGISTER 1 IMAGE
       0648     E0DF 35 B6                     PULS   A,B,X,Y,PC
       0649
       0650                            * MASTER IMAGES USED TO PROGRAM THE CUSTOM CHIP'S MMU REGISTERS
       0651                            * TASK REGISTER 0
       0652     E0E1 38 39 3A 3B 3C 3D IM.MMU   FCB   BLOCK7.0,BLOCK7.1,BLOCK7.2        DEFAULT VALUES
       0653     E0E7 3E 3F                            BLOCK7.3,BLOCK7.4,BLOCK7.5
       0654                                           BLOCK7.6,BLOCK7.7
       0655                            * TASK REGISTER 1
       0656     E0E9 38 30 31 32 33 3D LE0E9    FCB   BLOCK7.0,BLOCK6.0,BLOCK6.1        DEFAULT VALUES
       0657     E0EF 35 3F                            BLOCK6.2,BLOCK6.3,BLOCK7.5
       0658                                           BLOCK6.5,BLOCK7.7
       0659
       0660                            * COPY 16 BYTES INTO THE MMU REGISTERS
       0661                            * ENTER WITH X POINTING TO THE 16 BYTES
       0662     E0F1 10 8E FF A0       LE0F1    LDY   #MMUREG                               POINT TO THE MMU REGISTERS
       0663     E0F5 C6 10                      LDB   #16                                   16 MMU REGISTERS
       0664     E0F7 A6 80             LE0F7    LDA   ,X+                                   GET A BYTE
       0665     E0F9 A7 A0                      STA   ,Y+                                   AND PUT IT INTO THE MMU REGISTER
       0666     E0FB 5A                         DECB                                        DECREMENT THE BYTE COUNT
       0667     E0FC 26 F9                      BNE   LE0F7                                 KEEP GOING UNTIL ALL REGISTERS MOVED
       0668     E0FE 39                         RTS
       0669
       0670                            * SELECT TASK REGISTER 0 AS THE ACTIVE TASK REGISTER
       0671                            * ENTER WITH THE STACK POINTING TO A TEMPORARY LOCATION; THE PERMANENT
       0672                            * STACK POINTER WAS SAVED ON THIS TEMPORARY STACK WHEN TASK REGISTER 1




                                                                                      B7
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                                                APPENDIX B                                                               ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                    DISASSEMBLY OF SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 1.1                                   REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




       0673                            * WAS SELECTED AS THE ACTIVE TASK REGISTER
       0674
       0675     E0FF DD 40             SELTASK0 STD     V40                                 TEMPORARILY SAVE ACCD
       0676     E101 EC E4                      LDD     ,S                                  GET THE RETURN ADDRESS OFF THE STACK
       0677     E103 DD 42                      STD     V42                                 AND TEMPORARILY SAVE IT IN V42
       0678     E105 EC 62                      LDD     $02,S                               GET THE PERMANENT STACK POINTER FROM THE STACK
       0679     E107 DD 44                      STD     V44                                 AND TEMPORARILY SAVE IT IN V44
       0680     E109 5F                         CLRB                                        TASK REGISTER 0 AND TIMER INPUT OF 63.5 MICROSECONDS
       0681     E10A F7 FF 91                   STB     INIT1                               PROGRAM INITIALIZATION REGISTER 1
       0682     E10D 10 DE 44                   LDS     V44                                 RESET THE STACK POINTER
       0683     E110 DC 42                      LDD     V42                                 GET BACK THE RETURN ADDRESS
       0684     E112 34 06                      PSHS    B,A                                 AND PUT IT ONTO THE STACK
       0685     E114 DC 40                      LDD     V40                                 RESTORE ACCD
       0686     E116 1C AF                      ANDCC   #$AF                                TURN ON IRQ, FIRQ
       0687     E118 39                         RTS
       0688
       0689                            * SELECT TASK REGISTER 1 AS THE ACTIVE TASK REGISTER
       0690                            * EXIT WITH THE STACK POINTER SET TO A TEMPORARY LOCATION
       0691     E119 1A 50             SELTASK1 ORCC #$50                               DISABLE INTERRUPTS
       0692     E11B DD 40                      STD   V40                               TEMPORARILY SAVE ACCD IN V40
       0693     E11D 35 06                      PULS A,B                                GET THE RETURN ADDRESS
       0694     E11F DD 42                      STD   V42                               AND TEMPORARILY SAVE IT IN V42
       0695     E121 10 DF 44                   STS   V44                               TEMPORARILY SAVE THE STACK POINTER IN V44
       0696     E124 C6 01                      LDB   #$01                              TASK REGISTER 1 AND TIMER INPUT AT 63.5 MICROSECONDS
       0697     E126 F7 FF 91                   STB   INIT1                             SETUP INITIALIZATION REGISTER 1
       0698     E129 10 CE DF FF                LDS   #TMPSTACK                         PUT THE STACK JUST BELOW THE START OF ENHANCED BASIC
       0699     E12D DC 44                      LDD   V44                               GET THE OLD STACK POINTER BACK
       0700     E12F 34 06                      PSHS B,A                                AND STUFF IT ONTO THE STACK
       0701     E131 DC 42                      LDD   V42                               GET THE RETURN ADDRESS BACK
       0702     E133 34 06                      PSHS B,A                                AND STUFF IT ONTO THE STACK TOO
       0703     E135 DC 40                      LDD   V40                               GET BACK ACCD
       0704     E137 39                         RTS
       0705
       0706                            * CRUNCH A TOKEN PATCH ENTERED FROM $B8D4
       0707     E138 0D 41             ALINK2   TST   V41                                   CHECK THE TOKEN FLAG
       0708     E13A 26 16                      BNE   LE152                                 BRANCH IF IT IS A FUNCTION TOKEN
       0709     E13C 96 42                      LDA   V42                                   GET THE TOKEN COUNTER
       0710     E13E 81 62                      CMPA #$62                                   COMPARE TO THE FIRST ENHANCED BASIC TOKEN
       0711     E140 23 06                      BLS   LE148                                 BRANCH IF BEFORE FIRST TOKEN
       0712     E142 CE 01 1B                   LDU   #COMVEC-5                             POINT U TO EXTENDED COLOR BASIC'S INTERPRETATION TABLE
       0713     E145 7E B8 D7                   JMP   LB8D7                                 RE-ENTER THE MAIN STREAM CODE
       0714     E148 86 62             LE148    LDA   #$62                                  FORCE THE TOKEN COUNTER TO THE FIRST ENHANCED BASIC TOKEN NUMBER
       0715     E14A CE E1 58                   LDU   LE158                                 POINT TO ENHANCED BASIC'S COMMAND INTERPRETATION TABLE
       0716     E14D 97 42             LE14D    STA   V42                                   SAVE THE NEW TOKEN COUNTER
       0717     E14F 7E B8 9D                   JMP   LB89D                                 RE-ENTER THE MAIN STREAM CODE
       0718     E152 96 42             LE152    LDA   V42                                   GET THE TOKEN COUNTER
       0719     E154 81 29                      CMPA #$29                                   COMPARE TO THE FIRST ENHANCED FUNCTION TOKEN NUMBER
       0720     E156 23 03                      BLS   LE15B                                 BRANCH IF LESS THAN ENHANCED TOKEN NUMBER
       0721     E158 7E B8 D7          LE158    JMP   LB9D7                                 RE-ENTER THE MAIN STREAM CODE
       0722     E15B 86 29             LE15B    LDA   #$29                                  FORCE COUNTER TO FIRST ENHANCED FUNCTION
       0723     E15D CE E1 5D          LE15D    LDU   #LE15D                                POINT TO THE ENHANCED FUNCTION INTERPRETATION TABLE
       0724     E160 20 EB                      BRA   LE14D
       0725
       0726                            * BASIC 2.0 COMMAND INTERPRETATION VECTOR TABLE
       0727     E162 17                EBCOMTAB FCB   23                                    23 BASIC 2.0 COMMANDS
       0728     E163 E1 C5             LE163    FDB   COMDIC20                              BASIC 2.0'S COMMAND DICTIONARY
       0729     E165 E1 92             LE165    FDB   ALINK4                                COMMAND PROCESSING ROUTINE ENTRY POINT
       0730     E167 05                LE167    FCB   5                                     5 BASIC 2.0 FUNCTIONS
       0731     E168 E2 64             LE168    FDB   FUNDIC20                              FUNCTION DICTIONARY TABLE
       0732     E16A E1 A6             LE16A    FDB   ALINK5                                FUNCTION PROCESSING ROUTINE ENTRY POINT
       0733     E16C 00 00 00 00 00 00 LE16C    FCB   $00,$00,$00,$00,$00,$00               DUMMY SPACE USED TO SIMULATE AN EMPTY COMMAND INTERP. VECTOR TABLE
       0734
       0735                            * UNCRUNCH A TOKEN PATCH ENTERED FROM $B7F3
       0736     E172 33 4A             ALINK3   LEAU 10,U                                   SKIP TO THE NEXT COMMAND INTERPRETATION TABLE
       0737     E174 6D C4                      TST   ,U                                    IS THIS A VALID TABLE?
       0738     E176 10 26 D6 7F                LBNE LD67F                                  YES - RE-ENTER THE MAIN STREAM CODE
       0739     E17A 30 1F                      LEAX $-01,X                                 UNNECESSARY INSTRUCTION; NEXT ONE SHOULD JUST BE LDA -1,X
       0740     E17C A6 80                      LDA   ,X+                                   GET THE TOKEN FROM BASIC'S INPUT LINE
       0741     E17E 84 7F                      ANDA #$7F                                   STRIP OFF THE $80 COMMAND TOKEN BIAS
       0742     E180 81 62                      CMPA #$62                                   FIRST LEGAL BASIC 2.0 COMMAND TOKEN NUMBER
       0743     E182 25 07                      BCS   LE18B                                 BRANCH IF LEGAL TOKEN
       0744     E184 80 62                      SUBA #$62                                   ADJUST BASIC 2.0 TOKENS TO START AT 0
       0745     E186 CE E1 58                   LDU   #LE158                                POINT TO ENHANCED BASIC'S COMMAND INTERPRETATION TABLE
       0746     E189 20 E7                      BRA   ALINK3
       0747     E18B 80 29             LE18B    SUBA #$29                                   SUBTRACT OUT THE FIRST ENHANCED FUNCTION TABLE
       0748     E18D CE E1 5D                   LDU   #LE15D                                POINT U TO BE ABLE TO SEARCH FOR AN ENHANCED FUNCTION TOKEN
       0749     E190 20 E0                      BRA   ALINK3
       0750
       0751                            * BASIC 2.0 COMMAND PROCESSING ROUTINE ENTRY POINT PATCH ENTERED FROM $8150
       0752     E192 81 E2             ALINK4   CMPA #$E2                               TOKEN NUMBER OF FIRST ENHANCED BASIC COMMAND
       0753     E194 25 04                      BCS   LE19A                             BRANCH IF LESS THAN ENHANCED TOKEN
       0754     E196 81 F8                      CMPA #$F8                               COMPARE TO THE HIGHEST ENHANCED BASIC TOKEN
       0755     E198 23 04                      BLS   LE19E                             BRANCH IF ENHANCED BASIC TOKEN
       0756     E19A 6E 9F 01 37       LE19A    JMP   [COMVEC+23]                       GO TO DISK BASIC'S COMMAND HANDLER
       0757     E19E 80 E2             LE19E    SUBA #$E2                               SUBTRACT OUT THE NON-ENHANCED BASIC TOKENS
       0758     E1A0 8E E2 36                   LDX   #COMDIS20                         POINT X TO ENHANCED BASIC'S COMMAND DISPATCH TABLE
       0759     E1A3 7E AD D4                   JMP   LADD4                             RE-ENTER THE MAIN STREAM CODE
       0760
       0761                            * BASIC 2.0 FUNCTION PROCESSING ROUTINE PATCH ENTERED FROM $816C
       0762     E1A6 C1 52             ALINK5   CMPB #$52                               COMPARE TO THE FIRST ENHANCED BASIC FUNCTION TOKEN
       0763     E1A8 25 04                      BCS   LE1AE                             BRANCH IF LESS THAN ENHANCED TOKEN
       0764     E1AA C1 5A                      CMPB #$5A                               COMPARE TO THE HIGHEST FUNCTION TOKEN
       0765     E1AC 23 04                      BLS   LE1B2                             BRANCH IF ENHANCED TOKEN
       0766     E1AE 6E 9F 01 3C       LE1AE    JMP   [COMVEC+28]                       JUMP TO DISK BASIC'S FUNCTION HANDLER
       0767     E1B2 C0 52             LE1B2    SUBB #$52                               SUBTRACT OUT THE NON-ENHANCED BASIC TOKENS
       0768     E1B4 C1 04                      CMPB #2*2                               CHECK FOR LPEEK, BUTTON, HPOINT




                                                                                      B8
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                                                APPENDIX B                                                                 ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                    DISASSEMBLY OF SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 1.1                                     REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




       0769     E1B6 24 07                     BCC    LE1BF                                 BRANCH IF ERNO, ERLIN
       0770     E1B8 34 04                     PSHS   B                                     SAVE THE TOKEN COUNTER
       0771     E1BA BD B2 62                  JSR    LB262                                 EVALUATE AN EXPRESSION IN PARENTHESIS
       0772     E1BD 35 04                     PULS   B                                     RESTORE THE TOKEN COUNTER
       0773     E1BF 8E E2 7E          LE1BF   LDX    #FUNDIS20                             POINT TO ENHANCED BASIC'S FUNCTION DISPATCH TABLE
       0774     E1C2 7E B2 CE                  JMP    LB2CE                                 RE-ENTER THE MAIN STREAM CODE
       0775                            *
       0776                            * BASIC 2.0 COMMAND DICTIONARY TABLE
       0777                            *
       0778                            *                                                    TOKEN #
       0779     E1C5 57 49 44 54 C8    COMDIC20 FCC   'WIDT',$80+'H'                        E2
       0780     E1CA 50 41 4C 45 54 54 LE1CA    FCC   'PALETT',$80+'E'                      E3
       0781     E1D0 C5
       0782     E1D1 48 53 43 52 45 45 LE1D1    FCC   'HSCREE',$80+'N'                      E4
       0783     E1D7 CE
       0784     E1D8 4C 50 4F 4B C5    LE1D8    FCC   'LPOK',$80+'E'                        E5
       0785     E1DD 48 43 4C D3       LE1DD    FCC   'HCL',$80+'S'                         E6
       0786     E1E1 48 43 4F 4C 4F D2 LE1E1    FCC   'HCOLO',$80+'R'                       E7
       0787     E1E7 48 50 41 49 4E D4 LE1E7    FCC   'HPAIN',$80+'T'                       E8
       0788     E1ED 48 43 49 52 43 4C LE1ED    FCC   'HCIRCL',$80+'E'                      E9
       0789     E1F3 C5
       0790     E1F4 48 4C 49 4E C5    LE1F4    FCC   'HLIN',$80+'E'                        EA
       0791     E1F9 48 47 45 D4       LE1F9    FCC   'HGE',$80+'T'                         EB
       0792     E1FD 48 50 55 D4       LE1FD    FCC   'HPU',$80+'T'                         EC
       0793     E201 48 42 55 46 C6    LE201    FCC   'HBUF',$80+'F'                        ED
       0794     E206 48 50 52 49 4E D4 LE206    FCC   'HPRIN',$80+'T'                       EE
       0795     E20C 45 52 D2          LE20C    FCC   'ER',$80+'R'                          EF
       0796     E20F 42 52 CB          LE20F    FCC   'BR',$80+'K'                          F0
       0797     E212 4C 4F 43 41 54 C5 LE212    FCC   'LOCAT',$80+'E'                       F1
       0798     E218 48 53 54 41 D4    LE218    FCC   'HSTA',$80+'T'                        F2
       0799     E21D 48 53 45 D4       LE21D    FCC   'HSE',$80+'T'                         F3
       0800     E221 48 52 45 53 45 D4 LE221    FCC   'HRESE',$80+'T'                       F4
       0801     E227 48 44 52 41 D7    LE227    FCC   'HDRA',$80+'W'                        F5
       0802     E22C 43 4D D0          LE22C    FCC   'CM',$80+'P'                          F6
       0803     E22F 52 47 C2          LE22F    FCC   'RG',$80+'B'                          F7
       0804     E232 41 54 54 D2       LE232    FCC   'ATT',$80+'R'                         F8
       0805                            *
       0806                            * BASIC 2.0 COMMAND DISPATCH TABLE
       0807                            *
       0808                            *                                                            TOKEN #
       0809     E236 F6 36             COMDIS20 FDB   WIDTH                                 WIDTH   E2
       0810     E238 E5 F0             LE238    FDB   PALETTE                               PALETTE E3
       0811     E23A E6 88             LE23A    FDB   HSCREEN                               HSCREEN E4
       0812     E23C E5 45             LE23C    FDB   LPOKE                                 LPOKE   E5
       0813     E23E E6 CF             LE23E    FDB   HCLS                                  HCLS    E6
       0814     E240 E6 F4             LE240    FDB   HCOLOR                                HCOLOR E7
       0815     E242 EB F5             LE242    FDB   HPAINT                                HPAINT E8
       0816     E244 EA 49             LE244    FDB   HCIRCLE                               HCIRCLE E9
       0817     E246 E8 82             LE246    FDB   HLINE                                 HLINE   EA
       0818     E248 ED E5             LE248    FDB   HGET                                  HGET    EB
       0819     E24A ED ED             LE24A    FDB   HPUT                                  HPUT    EC
       0820     E24C ED 58             LE24C    FDB   HBUFF                                 HBUFF   ED
       0821     E24E EF 3F             LE24E    FDB   HPRINT                                HPRINT EE
       0822     E250 E3 D4             LE250    FDB   ERR                                   ERR     EF
       0823     E252 E3 E6             LE252    FDB   BRK                                   BRK     F0
       0824     E254 F8 D2             LE254    FDB   LOCATE                                LOCATE F1
       0825     E256 F9 25             LE256    FDB   HSTAT                                 HSTAT   F2
       0826     E258 E7 61             LE258    FDB   HSET                                  HSET    F3
       0827     E25A E7 65             LE25A    FDB   HRESET                                HRESET F4
       0828     E25C F3 9D             LE25C    FDB   HDRAW                                 HDRAW   F5
       0829     E25E E6 76             LE25E    FDB   CMP                                   CMP     F6
       0830     E260 E6 74             LE260    FDB   RGB                                   RGB     F7
       0831     E262 F9 B9             LE262    FDB   ATTR                                  ATTR    F8
       0832                            *
       0833                            * BASIC 2.0 FUNCTION DICTIONARY TABLE
       0834                            *
       0835                            *                                                    TOKEN #
       0836     E264 4C 50 45 45 CB    FUNDIC20 FCC   'LPEE',$80+'K'                        A8
       0837     E269 42 55 54 54 4F CE LE269    FCC   'BUTTO',$80+'N'                       A9
       0838     E26F 48 50 4F 49 4E D4 LE26F    FCC   'HPOIN',$80+'T'                       AA
       0839     E275 45 52 4E CF       LE275    FCC   'ERN',$80+'O'                         AB
       0840     E279 45 52 4C 49 CE    LE279    FCC   'ERLI',$80+'N'                        AC
       0841                            *
       0842                            * BASIC 2.0 FUNCTION DISPATCH TABLE
       0843                            *
       0844                            *                                                               TOKEN #
       0845     E27E E5 73             FUNDIS20 FDB   LPEEK                                 LPEEK      A8
       0846     E280 E5 B1             LE280    FDB   BUTTON                                BUTTON     A9
       0847     E282 E8 5C             LE282    FDB   HPOINT                                HPOINT     AA
       0848     E284 E4 E9             LE284    FDB   ERNO                                  ERNO       AB
       0849     E286 E4 FD             LE286    FDB   ERLIN                                 ERLIN      AC
       0850
       0851                            * PRINT THE COPYRIGHT MESSAGE PATCH ENTERED FROM $80B2
       0852     E288 8E 80 E7          ALINK12 LDX    #L80E7                            POINT TO EXTENDED BASIC'S COPYRIGHT MESSAGE
       0853     E28B BD B9 9C                   JSR   STRINOUT                          COPY A STRING FROM (X) TO CONSOLE OUT
       0854     E28E 8E E2 F7                   LDX   #MWAREMS-1                        MICROWARE'S COPYRIGHT MESSAGE
       0855     E291 BD B9 9C                   JSR   STRINOUT                          COPY A STRING FROM (X) TO CONSOLE OUT
       0856     E294 7E 80 B8                   JMP   L80B8                             EXTENDED BASIC'S WARM START REENTRY
       0857
       0858                            * PRINT THE DISK BASIC 2.0 COPYRIGHT MESSAGE PATCH ENTERED FROM $C0C6
       0859     E297 8E E2 A2          ALINK28 LDX    #DISK20MS-1                       POINT TO DISK BASIC 2.0 MESSAGE
       0860     E29A 7E C0 C9                   JMP   LC0C9                             COPY MESSAGE TO SCREEN AND WARM START DISK BASIC 2.0
       0861                            * PRINT THE DISK BASIC 2.1 COPYRIGHT MESSAGE PATCH ENTERED FROM $C0C6
       0862     E29D 8E E3 15          ALINK29 LDX    #LE313+2                          POINT TO DISK BASIC 2.1 MESSAGE
       0863     E2A0 7E C0 DC                   JMP   LC0DC                             COPY MESSAGE TO SCREEN AND WARM START DISK BASIC 2.1
       0864




                                                                                      B9
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                                                APPENDIX B                                                               ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                    DISASSEMBLY OF SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 1.1                                   REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




       0865     E2A3 44 49 53 4B 20 45 DISK20MS FCC   'DISK EXTENDED COLOR BASIC 2.0'
       0866     E2A9 58 54 45 4E 44 45
       0867     E2AF 44 20 43 4F 4C 4F
       0868     E2B5 52 20 42 41 53 49
       0869     E2BB 43 20 32 2E 30
       0870     E2C0 0D                LE2C0    FCB   $0D
       0871     E2C1 43 4F 50 52 2E 20 LE2C1    FCC   'COPR. 1981, 1986 BY TANDY'
       0872     E2C7 31 39 38 31 2C 20
       0873     E2CD 31 39 38 36 20 42
       0874     E2D3 59 20 54 41 4E 44
       0875     E2D9 59
       0876     E2DA 0D                LE2DA    FCB   $0D
       0877     E2DB 55 4E 44 45 52 20 LE2DB    FCC   'UNDER LICENSE FROM MICROSOFT'
       0878     E2E1 4C 49 43 45 4E 53
       0879     E2E7 45 20 46 52 4F 4D
       0880     E2ED 20 4D 49 43 52 4F
       0881     E2F3 53 4F 46 54
       0882     E2F7 0D                LE2F7    FCB   $0D
       0883     E2F8 41 4E 44 20 4D 49 MWAREMS FCC    'AND MICROWARE SYSTEMS CORP.'
       0884     E2FE 43 52 4F 57 41 52
       0885     E304 45 20 53 59 53 54
       0886     E30A 45 4D 53 20 43 4F
       0887     E310 52 50 2E
       0888     E313 0D 0D 00          LE313    FCB   $0D,$0D,$00
       0889     E316 44 49 53 4B 20 45 DISK21MS FCC   'DISK EXTENDED COLOR BASIC 2.1'
       0890     E31C 58 54 45 4E 44 45
       0891     E322 44 20 43 4F 4C 4F
       0892     E328 52 20 42 41 53 49
       0893     E32E 43 20 32 2E 31
       0894     E333 0D                LE333    FCB   $0D
       0895     E334 43 4F 50 52 2E 20 LE334    FCC   'COPR. 1981, 1986 BY TANDY'
       0896     E33A 31 39 38 32 2C 20
       0897     E340 31 39 38 36 20 42
       0898     E346 59 20 54 41 4E 44
       0899     E34C 59
       0900     E34D 0D                LE33D    FCB   $0D
       0901     E34E 55 4E 44 45 52 20 LE33E    FCC   'UNDER LICENSE FROM MICROSOFT'
       0902     E354 4C 49 43 45 4E 53
       0903     E35A 45 20 46 52 4F 4D
       0904     E360 20 4D 49 43 52 4F
       0905     E366 53 4F 46 54
       0906     E36A 0D                LE36A    FCB   $0D
       0907     E36B 41 4E 44 20 4D 49 LE36B    FCC   'AND MICROWARE SYSTEMS CORP.'
       0908     E371 43 52 4F 57 41 52
       0909     E377 45 20 53 59 53 54
       0910     E37D 45 4D 53 20 43 4F
       0911     E383 52 50 2E
       0912     E386 0D 0D 00          LE386    FCB   $0D,$0D,$00
       0913
       0914                            * GRAPHICS INITIALIZATION PATCH ENTERED FROM $9703
       0915     E389 4F                ALINK14 CLRA
       0916     E38A 5F                         CLRB
       0917     E38B 10 21 1C 71                LBRN RAMLINK                            RAM HOOK
       0918     E38F F7 FE 08                   STB   H.CRSATT                          SET CURSOR ATTRIBUTES TO ZERO
       0919     E392 DD E6                      STD   HRMODE                            SET HI-RES GRAPHICS AND TEXT MODES TO OFF
       0920     E394 FD FE 0C                   STD   H.ONBRK                           RESET THE ON BRK ADDRESS TO ZERO; NON-INITIALIZED
       0921     E397 FD FE 0E                   STD   H.ONERR                           RESET THE ON ERROR ADDRES TO ZERO; NON-INITIALIZED
       0922     E39A B7 FE 0B                   STA   H.BCOLOR                          PALETTE REGISTER ZERO IS THE DEFAULT BACKGROUND COLOR
       0923     E39D 86 01                      LDA   #$01                              DEFAULT PALETTE REGISTER FOR THE FOREGROUND COLOR
       0924     E39F B7 FE 0A                   STA   H.FCOLOR                          USE PALETTE REGISTER1 AS THE FOREGROUND COLOR
       0925     E3A2 86 34                      LDA   #BLOCK6.4                         GET THE HPUT/HGET BUFFER BLOCK
       0926     E3A4 B7 FF A0                   STA   MMUREG                            PIT IT INTO LOGICAL BLOCK 0
       0927     E3A7 CC FF FF                   LDD   #$FFFF                            HPUT/HGET BUFFER EMPTY FLAG
       0928     E3AA DD 00                      STD   $0                                RESET THE HPUT/HGET BUFFER TO EMPTY
       0929     E3AC 86 38                      LDA   #BLOCK7.0
       0930     E3AE B7 FF A0                   STA   MMUREG                            RESTORE BLOCK 7.0 TO LOGICAL BLOCK 0 OF TASK REGISTER 0
       0931     E3B1 7E AD 19                   JMP   LAD19                             GO DO A COMPLETE 'NEW'
       0932
       0933                            * ON COMMAND (FOR ON ERR AND ON BRK) PATCH ENTERED FROM $AF42
       0934     E3B4 81 EF             ALINK18 CMPA #$EF                                'ERR' TOKEN
       0935     E3B6 27 1C                      BEQ   ERR
       0936     E3B8 81 F0                      CMPA #$F0                               'BRK' TOKEN
       0937     E3BA 27 2A                      BEQ   BRK
       0938     E3BC BD B7 0B                   JSR   EVALEXPB                          EVALUATE EXPRESSION, RETURN VALUE IN ACCB
       0939     E3BF 7E AF 45                   JMP   LAF45                             JUMP TO THE ON COMMAND($AF45)
       0940     E3C2 9D 9F             LE3C2    JSR   GETNCH                            GET THE NEXT CHARACTER FROM BASIC'S INPUT LINE
       0941     E3C4 81 81                      CMPA #$81                               'GO' TOKEN
       0942     E3C6 26 07                      BNE   LE3CF                             SYNTAX ERROR IF NOT GO
       0943     E3C8 9D 9F                      JSR   GETNCH                            GET THE NEXT CHARACTER FROM BASIC'S INPUT LINE
       0944     E3CA 81 A5                      CMPA #$A5                               'TO' TOKEN
       0945     E3CC 26 01                      BNE   LE3CF                             SYNTAX ERROR IF NOT GOTO
       0946     E3CE 39                         RTS
       0947     E3CF 32 62             LE3CF    LEAS $02,S                              REMOVE ONE RETURN ADDRESS FROM THE STACK
       0948     E3D1 7E B2 77                   JMP   LB277                             'SYNTAX' ERROR
       0949
       0950                            * ERR
       0951     E3D4 8D EC             ERR     BSR    LE3C2                                 CHECK FOR THE 'GO' AND 'TO' TOKENS
       0952     E3D6 9D 9F                     JSR    GETNCH                                GET THE NEXT CHARACTER FROM BASIC'S INPUT LINE
       0953     E3D8 BD AF 67                  JSR    LAF67                                 STRIP THE 'GOTO' LINE NUMBER FROM THE BASIC INPUT LINE
       0954     E3DB DC 2B                     LDD    BINVAL                                GET THE 'GOTO' LINE NUMBER
       0955     E3DD FD FE 0E                  STD    H.ONERR                               SAVE IT
       0956     E3E0 DC 68                     LDD    CURLIN                                GET THE CURRENT LINE NUMBER
       0957     E3E2 FD FE 11                  STD    H.ONERRS                              AND SAVE IT AS THE SOURCE LINE NUMBER
       0958     E3E5 39                        RTS
       0959
       0960                            * BRK




                                                                                     B10
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                                              APPENDIX B                                                               ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                  DISASSEMBLY OF SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 1.1                                   REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




       0961     E3E6 8D DA           BRK     BSR    LE3C2                                 CHECK FOR THE 'GO' AND THE 'TO' TOKENS
       0962     E3E8 9D 9F                   JSR    GETNCH                                GET THE NEXT CHARACTER FROM BASIC'S INPUT LINE
       0963     E3EA BD AF 67                JSR    LAF67                                 STRIP THE 'GOTO' LINE NUMBER FROM THE BASIC INPUT LINE
       0964     E3ED DC 2B                   LDD    BINVAL                                GET THE 'GOTO' LINE NUMBER
       0965     E3EF FD FE 0C                STD    H.ONBRK                               SAVE IT
       0966     E3F2 DC 68                   LDD    CURLIN                                GET THE CURRENT LINE NUMBER
       0967     E3F4 FD FE 15                STD    H.ONBRKS                              AND SAVE IT AS THE SOURCE LINE NUMBER
       0968     E3F7 39                      RTS
       0969
       0970                          * &H TYPE VARIABLE EVALUATION PATCH ENTERED FROM $8834
       0971     E3F8 68 02           ALINK6A LSL    $02,X                             *
       0972     E3FA 69 01                    ROL   $01,X                             * MULTIPLY THE TEMPORARY
       0973     E3FC 69 84                    ROL   ,X                                * ACCUMULATOR BY TWO
       0974     E3FE 10 25 D6 90              LBCS LBA92                              'OV' OVERFLOW ERROR ($BA92)
       0975     E402 5A                       DECB                                    DECREMENT THE SHIFT COUNTER
       0976     E403 26 F3                    BNE   ALINK6A                           LOOP UNTIL DONE
       0977     E405 80 30                    SUBA #'0'                               MASK OFF ASCII
       0978     E407 AB 02                    ADDA $02,X                              * ADD DIGIT TO TEMPORARY
       0979     E409 A7 02                    STA   $02,X                             * ACCUMULATOR AND SAVE IT
       0980     E40B 39                       RTS
       0981
       0982                          * &H TYPE VARIABLE EVALUATION PATCH ENTERED FROM $8843
       0983     E40C 10 25 A3 F0     ALINK6B LBCS L8800                               ($8800)
       0984     E410 7E 88 3F                 JMP   L883F                             ($883F)
       0985
       0986                          * BASIC'S LINE INPUT PATCH ENTERED FROM $A3C2
       0987     E413 81 03           ALINK16 CMPA #$03                                    BREAK KEY DEPRESSED?
       0988     E415 1A 01                    ORCC #$01                                   SET THE CARRY FLAG
       0989     E417 26 0D                    BNE   LE426                                 BRANCH IF NOT THE BREAK KEY
       0990     E419 34 03                    PSHS A,CC                                   SAVE REGISTERS
       0991     E41B 96 E6                    LDA   HRMODE                                CHECK THE HI-RES GRAPHICS MODE
       0992     E41D 27 05                    BEQ   LE424                                 BRANCH IF IN COCO COMPATIBLE MODE
       0993     E41F 0F E6                    CLR   HRMODE                                FORCE TO COCO COMPATIBLE MODE
       0994     E421 BD E0 19                 JSR   SETTEXT                               PROGRAM THE VIDEO MODE REGISTERS
       0995     E424 35 03           LE424    PULS CC,A                                   RESTORE REGISTERS
       0996     E426 7E A3 C6        LE426    JMP   LA3C6                                 RE-ENTER THE MAIN STREAM OF CODE ($A3C6)
       0997
       0998                          * BREAK CHECK PATCH ENTERED FROM $ADF0
       0999     E429 81 03           ALINK15 CMPA #$03                                    BREAK KEY DEPRESSED?
       1000     E42B 27 03                    BEQ   LE430                                 YES
       1001     E42D 7E AD F4                 JMP   LADF4                                 RE-ENTER THE MAIN STREAM OF CODE ($ADF4)
       1002     E430 86 01           LE430    LDA   #$01                                  'BREAK' FLAG
       1003     E432 B7 FE 17                 STA   H.ERRBRK                              SAVE IN THE ERROR/BREAK FLAG
       1004     E435 96 68                    LDA   CURLIN                                DIRECT MODE?
       1005     E437 4C                       INCA                                        $FF SIGNIFIES DIRECT MODE
       1006     E438 27 05                    BEQ   LE43F                                 BRANCH IF DIRECT MODE
       1007     E43A FC FE 0C                 LDD   H.ONBRK                               HAS AN ON BRK TRAP BEEN SET UP?
       1008     E43D 26 0A                    BNE   LE449                                 YES
       1009     E43F 96 E6           LE43F    LDA   HRMODE                                CHECK THE HI-RES GRAPHICS MODE
       1010     E441 27 03                    BEQ   LE446                                 BRANCH IF COCO COMPATIBLE
       1011     E443 BD E0 19                 JSR   SETTEXT                               PROGRAM THE VIDEO DISPLAY REGISTERS
       1012     E446 7E AE 09        LE446    JMP   LAE09                                 JUMP TO THE STOP COMMAND ($AE09)
       1013     E449 DD 2B           LE449    STD   BINVAL                                SAVE THE SEARCH LINE NUMBER
       1014     E44B 7D FE 17                 TST   H.ERRBRK                              CHECK THE ERROR/BREAK FLAG
       1015     E44E 26 08                    BNE   LE458                                 BRANCH IF BREAK
       1016     E450 10 DE 21                 LDS   FRETOP                                IF ERROR, RESET THE STACK POINTER
       1017     E453 CC AD C4                 LDD   #LADC4                                * GET THE ADDRESS ($ADC4) OF THE MAIN COMMAND INTERPRETATION
       1018     E456 34 06                    PSHS B,A                                    * LOOP AND SAVE IT AS THE NEW RETURN ADDRESS
       1019     E458 BD AE EB        LE458    JSR   LAEEB                                 MOVE THE INPUT POINTER TO THE END OF THE LINE
       1020     E45B 30 01                    LEAX $01,X                                  SKIP TO THE START OF THE NEXT LINE
       1021     E45D DC 2B                    LDD   BINVAL                                GET THE LINE NUMBER WE'RE LOOKING FOR
       1022     E45F 10 93 68                 CMPD CURLIN                                 COMPARE TO THE CURRENT LINE NUMBER
       1023     E462 22 02                    BHI   LE466                                 BRANCH IF SEARCH LINE NUMBER GREATER THAN CURRENT LINE NUMBER
       1024     E464 9E 19                    LDX   TXTTAB                                POINT X TO THE BEGINNING OF THE PROGRAM
       1025     E466 BD AD 05        LE466    JSR   LAD05                                 SEARCH FOR THE PROGRAM LINE NUMBER IN ACCD
       1026     E469 10 25 00 B1              LBCS LE51E                                  BRANCH IF LINE NUMBER NOT FOUND
       1027     E46D 7E AE BB                 JMP   LAEBB                                 RESET BASIC'S INPUT POINTER AND RETURN ($AEBB)
       1028
       1029                          * ERROR SERVICING ROUTINE PATCH ENTERED FROM $AC46
       1030     E470 7F FE 17        ALINK20 CLR    H.ERRBRK                          SET THE ERROR/BREAK FLAG TO ERROR (0)
       1031     E473 96 68                    LDA   CURLIN                            GET THE CURRENT LINE NUMBER
       1032     E475 4C                       INCA                                    CHECK FOR DIRECT MODE
       1033     E476 27 05                    BEQ   LE47D                             BRANCH IF DIRECT MODE
       1034     E478 BE FE 0E                 LDX   H.ONERR                           HAS AN ON ERROR TRAP BEEN SET UP?
       1035     E47B 26 36                    BNE   LE4B3                             BRANCH IF ONE HAS
       1036     E47D 34 02           LE47D    PSHS A                                  SAVE ACCA
       1037     E47F 96 E6                    LDA   HRMODE                            TEST THE HI-RES GRAPHICS MODE
       1038     E481 35 02                    PULS A                                  RESTORE ACCA
       1039     E483 27 03                    BEQ   LE488                             BRANCH IF HI-RES GRAPHICS NOT SET UP
       1040     E485 BD E0 19                 JSR   SETTEXT                           PROGRAM THE VIDEO CONTROL REGISTERS FOR THE CURRENT MODE
       1041     E488 C1 4C           LE488    CMPB #38*2                              HI-RES GRAPHICS ERROR
       1042     E48A 26 13                    BNE   LE49F                             BRANCH IF NOT
       1043     E48C BD B9 5C                 JSR   LB95C                             SET UP PRINT PARAMETERS
       1044     E48F BD B9 AF                 JSR   LB9AF                             SEND A '?' TO CONSOLE OUT
       1045     E492 30 8D 00 36              LEAX BAS20ERR,PC                        POINT TO ENHANCED BASIC'S ADDITIONAL ERROR CODES
       1046     E496 BD AC A0        LE496    JSR   LACA0                             GET A CHARACTER FROM X AND SEND IT TO CONSOLE OUT
       1047     E499 BD AC A0                 JSR   LACA0                             DO IT AGAIN
       1048     E49C 7E AC 65                 JMP   LAC65                             RE-ENTER THE MAIN STREAM OF CODE ($AC65)
       1049     E49F C1 4E           LE49F    CMPB #39*2                              HI-RES TEXT MODE ERROR
       1050     E4A1 26 0D                    BNE   LE4B0                             BRANCH IF NOT
       1051     E4A3 BD B9 5C                 JSR   LB95C                             SET UP THE PRINT PARAMETERS
       1052     E4A6 BD B9 AF                 JSR   LB9AF                             SEND A '?' TO CONSOLE OUT
       1053     E4A9 30 8D 00 21              LEAX LE4CE,PC                           POINT TO ENHANCED BASIC'S ADDITIONAL ERROR CODES
       1054     E4AD 7E E4 96                 JMP   LE496                             GO PRINT THE ERROR CODE POINTED TO BY X
       1055     E4B0 7E AC 49        LE4B0    JMP   LAC49                             JUMP TO THE ERROR SERVICING ROUTINE ($AC49)
       1056     E4B3 F7 FE 10        LE4B3    STB   H.ERROR                           SAVE THE ERROR NUMBER




                                                                                   B11
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                                                APPENDIX B                                                               ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                    DISASSEMBLY OF SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 1.1                                   REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




       1057     E4B6 34 04                    PSHS   B                                      ALSO PUT IT ON THE STACK TEMPORARILY
       1058     E4B8 DC 68                    LDD    CURLIN                                 GET THE CURRENT LINE NUMBER
       1059     E4BA FD FE 13                 STD    H.ERLINE                               SAVE THE LINE NUMBER WHERE THE ERROR OCCURRED
       1060     E4BD 35 04                    PULS   B                                      GET BACK THE ERROR NUMBER
       1061     E4BF C1 06                    CMPB   #3*2                                   WAS IT AN OUT OF DATA ERROR?
       1062     E4C1 26 04                    BNE    LE4C7                                  BRANCH IF NOT
       1063     E4C3 DC 2B                    LDD    BINVAL                                 THE INPUT POINTER IS SAVED IN BINVAL BY THE READ COMMAND
       1064     E4C5 DD A6                    STD    CHARAD                                 SAVE NEW ADDRESS FOR BASIC'S INPUT POINTER
       1065     E4C7 1F 10           LE4C7    TFR    X,D                                    SAVE THE ON ERROR DESTINATION LINE NUMBER IN ACCD
       1066     E4C9 16 FF 7D                 LBRA   LE449                                  GO TRANSFER CONTROL TO THAT LINE NUMBER
       1067
       1068                          * ENHANCED BASIC'S ERROR CODES
       1069     E4CC 48 52           BAS20ERR FCC   'HR'                                    38    HIRES GRAHICS ERROR
       1070     E4CE 48 50           LE4CE    FCC   'HP'                                    39    HIRES TEXT ERROR
       1071
       1072                          * LINE INTO 'NEW' FROM $AD3F
       1073     E4D0 34 06           ALINK19 PSHS B,A                                       SAVE THE CONTENTS OF ACCD
       1074     E4D2 4F                       CLRA
       1075     E4D3 5F                       CLRB
       1076     E4D4 DD 2D                    STD   OLDPTR                                  RESET 'CONT' ADDRESS SO THAT YOU CAN'T CONTINUE
       1077     E4D6 FD FE 0C                 STD   H.ONBRK                                 RESET THE ON BRK ADDRESS TO ZERO: NON-INITIALIZED
       1078     E4D9 FD FE 0E                 STD   H.ONERR                                 RESET THE ON ERROR ADDRESS TO ZERO: NON-INITIALIZED
       1079     E4DC FD FE 13                 STD   H.ERLINE                                RESET THE ERLIN LINE NUMBER TO ZERO: NO ERROR
       1080     E4DF 86 FF                    LDA   #$FF                                    INDICATES NO ERROR
       1081     E4E1 B7 FE 10                 STA   H.ERROR                                 RESET ERROR NUMBER TO NO ERROR
       1082     E4E4 35 06                    PULS A,B                                      RESTORE ACCD
       1083     E4E6 7E AD 43                 JMP   LAD43                                   JUMP TO THE END OF THE NEW COMMAND ($AD43)
       1084
       1085                          * ERNO
       1086     E4E9 4F              ERNO     CLRA                                          CLEAR THE MS BYTE OF ACCD
       1087     E4EA F6 FE 10                 LDB    H.ERROR                                GET THE ERROR NUMBER
       1088     E4ED C1 FF                    CMPB   #$FF                                   IS IT A REAL ERROR
       1089     E4EF 26 03                    BNE    LE4F4                                  BRANCH IF YES
       1090     E4F1 1D                       SEX                                           NOW ACCD = $FFFF IF NOT A REAL ERROR
       1091     E4F2 20 06                    BRA    LE4FA                                  CONVERT ACCD TO FLOATING POINT
       1092     E4F4 C1 F1           LE4F4    CMPB   #$F1                                   CHECK FOR ERROR NUMBER $F1
       1093     E4F6 26 01                    BNE    LE4F9                                  BRANCH IF NOT ERROR $F1
       1094     E4F8 53                       COMB                                          CONVERT TO 7*2 (UNDEFINED LINE NUMBER)
       1095     E4F9 57              LE4F9    ASRB                                          DIVIDE ERROR NUMBER BY 2
       1096     E4FA 7E B4 F4        LE4FA    JMP    GIVABF                                 CONVERT ACCD INTO A FLOATING POINT NUMBER
       1097
       1098                          * ERLIN
       1099     E4FD FC FE 13        ERLIN   LDD     H.ERLINE                               GET THE LINE NUMBER WHERE THE ERROR OCCURRED
       1100     E500 20 F8                   BRA     LE4FA                                  CONVERT IT INTO A FLOATING POINT NUMBER
       1101
       1102                          * BASIC'S MAIN LOOP IN THE DIRECT MODE PATCH ENTERED FROM $AC73
       1103     E502 BD E0 19        ALINK21 JSR    SETTEXT                           SET UP HI-RES TEXT MODE IF ENABLED
       1104     E505 BD B9 5C                 JSR   LB95C                             SET UP VARIOUS PRINT PARAMETERS
       1105     E508 1A 50                    ORCC #$50                               DISABLE IRQ, FIRQ
       1106     E50A 86 34                    LDA   #BLOCK6.4                         GET/PUT BUFFER BLOCK
       1107     E50C B7 FF A0                 STA   MMUREG                            PUT IT INTO LOGICAL BLOCK 0
       1108     E50F CC FF FF                 LDD   #$FFFF                            NO HGET/HPUT BUFFERS USED FLAG
       1109     E512 DD 00                    STD   0                                 SET THE HGET/HPUT BUFFER SPACE TO SHOW NO BUFFERS IN USE
       1110     E514 86 38                    LDA   #BLOCK7.4                         GET NORMAL LOGICAL BLOCK 0
       1111     E516 B7 FF A0                 STA   MMUREG                            PUT BACK INTO THE LOGICAL ADDRESS SPACE
       1112     E519 1C AF                    ANDCC #$AF                              ENABLE IRQ, FIRQ
       1113     E51B 7E AC 76                 JMP   LAC76                             RE-ENTER THE MAIN STREAM CODE ($AC76)
       1114
       1115     E51E 7D FE 17        LE51E    TST    H.ERRBRK                               CHECK THE ERROR/BREAK FLAG
       1116     E521 27 05                    BEQ    LE528                                  BRANCH IF ERROR BROUGHT US HERE
       1117     E523 FC FE 15                 LDD    H.ONBRKS                               GET THE ON BRK SOURCE LINE NUMBER IF BREAK VECTORED US HERE
       1118     E526 20 03                    BRA    LE52B
       1119     E528 FC FE 11        LE528    LDD    H.ONERRS                               GET THE ON ERROR SOURCE LINE NUMBER
       1120     E52B DD 68           LE52B    STD    CURLIN                                 SAVE THE SOURCE LINE NUMBER AS THE CURRENT LINE NUMBER
       1121     E52D C6 0E                    LDB    #7*2                                   UNDEFINED LINE NUMBER ERROR
       1122     E52F 7E AC 49                 JMP    LAC49                                  JUMP TO THE ERROR SERVICING ROUTINE ($AC49)
       1123
       1124                          * INPUT PATCH ENTERED FROM $B03D
       1125     E532 FC FE 0C        ALINK17 LDD    H.ONBRK                                 GET THE ON BRK SOURCE LINE NUMBER
       1126     E535 10 27 C8 D8              LBEQ LAE11                                    BRANCH IF ON BRK NOT INITIALIZED ($AE11)
       1127     E539 34 06                    PSHS B,A                                      SAVE THE ON BRK SOURCE ADDRESS
       1128     E53B 86 01                    LDA   #$01                                    BREAK FLAG
       1129     E53D B7 FE 17                 STA   H.ERRBRK                                SET THE ERROR/BREAK FLAG TO BREAK
       1130     E540 35 06                    PULS A,B                                      RESTORE SOURCE ADDRESS - INEFFICIENT, LDD H.ONBRK IS BETTER
       1131     E542 16 FF 04                 LBRA LE449
       1132
       1133                          * LPOKE
       1134     E545 BD B1 41        LPOKE   JSR     LB141                                  EVALUATE A NUMERIC EXPRESSION
       1135     E548 10 21 1A B4             LBRN    RAMLINK                                ROM HOOK
       1136     E54C 8D 40                   BSR     LE58E                                  CONVERT FPA0 INTO AN EXTENDED ADDRESS
       1137     E54E C1 3F                   CMPB    #BLOCK7.7                              HIGHEST POSSIBLE BLOCK NUMBER
       1138     E550 10 22 CE F6             LBHI    ILLFUNC                                ILLEGAL FUNCTION CALL ERROR IF BLOCK NUMBER TOO BIG
       1139     E554 34 14                   PSHS    X,B                                    SAVE REGISTERS
       1140     E556 BD B2 6D                JSR     SYNCOMMA                               DO A SYNTAX CHECK FOR A COMMA
       1141     E559 BD B7 0B                JSR     EVALEXPB                               EVALUATE EXPRESSION, RETURN VALUE IN ACCB
       1142     E55C 1F 98                   TFR     B,A                                    SAVE THE BLOCK NUMBER IN ACCA
       1143     E55E 35 14                   PULS    B,X                                    RESTORE REGISTERS
       1144     E560 C1 3F                   CMPB    #BLOCK7.7                              COMPARE TO HIGHEST POSSIBLE BLOCK NUMBER
       1145     E562 10 22 CE E4             LBHI    ILLFUNC                                ILLEGAL FUNCTION CALL ERROR
       1146     E566 1A 50                   ORCC    #$50                                   DISABLE INTERRUPTS
       1147     E568 17 FB 36                LBSR    SELBLOK0                               PUT THE INTERPRETED BLOCK INTO LOGICAL BLOCK 0
       1148     E56B A7 84                   STA     ,X                                     STORE THE VALUE BEING POKEd
       1149     E56D 17 FB 27                LBSR    SETMMU                                 RESTORE THE MMU REGISTERS TO WHAT BASIC EXPECTS
       1150     E570 1C AF                   ANDCC   #$AF                                   ENABLE THE IRQ AND FIRQ INTERRUPTS
       1151     E572 39                      RTS
       1152




                                                                                     B12
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                                              APPENDIX B                                                                 ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                  DISASSEMBLY OF SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 1.1                                     REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




       1153                          * LPEEK
       1154     E573 8D 19           LPEEK   BSR     LE58E                                CONVERT FPA0 INTO AN EXTENDED ADDRESS
       1155     E575 10 21 1A 87             LBRN    RAMLINK                              RAM HOOK
       1156     E579 C1 3F                   CMPB    #BLOCK7.7                            COMPARE TO HIGHEST LEGAL BLOCK NUMBER
       1157     E57B 10 22 CE CB             LBHI    ILLFUNC                              ILLEGAL FUNCTINO CALL ERROR IF BLOCK NUMBER TOO BIG
       1158     E57F 1A 50                   ORCC    #$50                                 DISABLE INTERRUPTS
       1159     E581 17 FB 1D                LBSR    SELBLOK0                             GET THE INTERPRETED BLOCK NUMBER INTO CPU BLOCK 0
       1160     E584 E6 84                   LDB     ,X                                   GET THE VALUE BEING LPEEKed
       1161     E586 17 FB 0E                LBSR    SETMMU                               RESTORE THE MMU REGISTERS TO WHAT BASIC EXPECTS
       1162     E589 1C AF                   ANDCC   #$AF                                 ENABLE THE IRQ AND FIRQ INTERRUPTS
       1163     E58B 7E B4 F3                JMP     LB4F3                                CONVERT THE VALUE IN ACCB INTO A FLOATING POINT NUMBER
       1164
       1165                          * CONVERT FPA0 INTO A 'LONG' ADDRESS
       1166                          * THE 'LONG' ADDRESS WIL BE RETURNED IN TWO PIECES: THE LOW ORDER 13 BITS
       1167                          * WILL BE IN THE X REGISTER, AND THE HIGH ORDER 6 BITS, WHICH ARE THE
       1168                          * BLOCK NUMBER, WILL BE IN ACCB
       1169     E58E 34 02           LE58E    PSHS A
       1170     E590 96 4F                    LDA   FP0EXP                            GET THE EXPONENT OF FPA0
       1171     E592 81 93                    CMPA #$93                               EXPONENT OF 512K-1
       1172     E594 23 04                    BLS   LE59A                             BRANCH IF <= 512K-1
       1173     E596 C6 40                    LDB   #BLOCK7.7+1                       MAKE IT ONE BLOCK BIGGER THAN THE BIGGEST ALLOWABLE
       1174     E598 20 15                    BRA   LE5AF                             EXIT ROUTINE
       1175     E59A BD BC C8        LE59A    JSR   LBCC8                             DE-NORMALIZE FPA0
       1176     E59D DC 52                    LDD   FPA0+2                            GET THE TWO LEAST SIGNIFICANT BITS OF FPA0
       1177     E59F 84 1F                    ANDA #$1F                               MASK OFF THE 3 HIGH ORDER BITS
       1178     E5A1 1F 01                    TFR   D,X                               SAVE THE 13 LOW ORDER BITS IN X REGISTER
       1179     E5A3 DC 51                    LDD   FPA0+1                            GET THE SECOND AND THIRD BYTES IF FPA0
       1180     E5A5 47                       ASRA
       1181     E5A6 56                       RORB
       1182     E5A7 47                       ASRA
       1183     E5A8 56                       RORB
       1184     E5A9 47                       ASRA
       1185     E5AA 56                       RORB
       1186     E5AB 47                       ASRA                                    NOT NECESSARY WITH MAXIMUM OF 512K RAM
       1187     E5AC 56                       RORB
       1188     E5AD 47                       ASRA                                    NOT NECESSARY WITH MAXIMUM OF 512K RAM
       1189     E5AE 56                       RORB                                    SHIFT ACCD RIGHT 5 TIMES - THE BLOCK NUMBER IS IN ACCB
       1190     E5AF 35 82           LE5AF    PULS A,PC
       1191
       1192                          * BUTTON
       1193     E5B1 BD B3 ED        BUTTON   JSR    INTCNV                               CONVERT FPA0 INTO AN INTEGER IN ACCB
       1194     E5B4 10 21 1A 48              LBRN   RAMLINK                              RAM HOOK
       1195     E5B8 C1 03                    CMPB   #$03                                 ONLY BUTTON NUMBERS 0-3 ALLOWD
       1196     E5BA 10 22 CE 8C              LBHI   ILLFUNC                              ILLEGAL FUNCTION ERROR
       1197     E5BE 1F 98                    TFR    B,A                                  SAVE BUTTON NUMBER IN ACCA
       1198     E5C0 5F                       CLRB
       1199     E5C1 53                       COMB                                        NOW ACCB = $FF
       1200     E5C2 8E FF 00                 LDX    #PIA0                                POINT TO THE KEYBOARD STROBE PIO
       1201     E5C5 E7 02                    STB    $02,X                                SET THE COLUMN STROBE TO $FF - ALLOW ONLY BUTTONS TO BE CHECKED
       1202     E5C7 E6 84                    LDB    ,X                                   READ THE KEYBOARD ROWS
       1203     E5C9 C1 0F                    CMPB   #$0F                                 THE BUTTONS ARE ON THE BOTTOM FOUR ROWS
       1204     E5CB 27 1D                    BEQ    LE5EA                                BRANCH IF NO BUTTONS DOWN
       1205     E5CD 30 8D 00 04              LEAX   LE5D5,PC                             POINT TO THE BUTTON MASKING ROUTINES
       1206     E5D1 48                       ALSA
       1207     E5D2 48                       ALSA                                        MULT ACCA BY FOUR - FOUR BYTES/EACH MASKING ROUTINE
       1208     E5D3 6E 86                    JMP    A,X                                  JUMP TO THE APPROPRIATE MASKING ROUTINE
       1209
       1210                          * MASK OFF ALL BUT BUTTON 1, RIGHT JOYSTICK
       1211     E5D5 C4 01           LE5D5    ANDB #$01
       1212     E5D7 20 0A                    BRA   LE5E3
       1213
       1214                          * MASK OFF ALL BUT BUTTON 1, LEFT JOYSTICK
       1215     E5D9 C4 04           LE5D9    ANDB #$04
       1216     E5DB 20 06                    BRA   LE5E3
       1217
       1218                          * MASK OFF ALL BUT BUTTON 2, RIGHT JOYSTICK
       1219     E5DD C4 02                    ANDB #$02
       1220     E5DF 20 02                    BRA   LE5E3
       1221
       1222                          * MASK OFF ALL BUT BUTTON 2, LEFT JOYSTICK
       1223     E5E1 C4 08                    ANDB #$08
       1224     E5E3 26 05           LE5E3    BNE   LE5EA                                 BRANCH IF MASKED BUTTON NOT DOWN
       1225     E5E5 CC 00 01                 LDD   #1                                    IF BUTTON DOWN, RETURN A VALUE OF ONE
       1226     E5E8 20 02                    BRA   LE5EC
       1227     E5EA 4F              LE5EA    CLRA
       1228     E5EB 5F                       CLRB                                        RETURN A ZERO IF BUTTON IS NOT DOWN
       1229     E5EC BD B4 F4        LE5EC    JSR   GIVABF                                CONVERT ACCD INTO A FLOATING POINT NUMBER IN FPA0
       1230     E5EF 39                       RTS
       1231
       1232                          * PALETTE
       1233     E5F0 81 F7           PALETTE CMPA #$F7                                'RGB' TOKEN?
       1234     E5F2 10 21 1A 0A              LBRN RAMLINK                            RAM HOOK
       1235     E5F6 26 08                    BNE   LE600                             NOT THE 'RGB' TOKEN, CHECK FOR 'CMP'
       1236     E5F8 9D 9F                    JSR   GETNCH                            GET THE NEXT CHARACTER FROM BASIC'S INPUT LINE
       1237                          * RGB ENTRY POINT - SET THE PALETTE REGISTERS FOR DEFAULT RGB VALUES
       1238     E5FA 30 8D 00 66     LE5FA    LEAX IM.RGB,PC                          POINT TO THE DEFAULT RGB PALETTE COLORS
       1239     E5FE 20 34                    BRA   LE634                             PUT THE DATA POINTED TO BY X INTO THE PALETTE REGISTERS
       1240     E600 81 F6           LE600    CMPA #$F6                               'CMP' TOKEN?
       1241     E602 26 08                    BNE   LE60C                             NO, GET A REGISTER NUMBER AND COLOR
       1242     E604 9D 9F                    JSR   GETNCH                            GET THE NEXT CHARACTER FROM BASIC'S INPUT LINE
       1243                          * CMP ENTRY POINT - SET THE PALETTE REGISTERS FOR DEFAULT CMP VALUES
       1244     E606 30 8D 00 4A     LE606    LEAX IM.CMP,PC                          POINT TO THE DEFAULT CMP PALETTE COLORS
       1245     E60A 20 28                    BRA   LE634                             PUT THE DATA POINTED TO BY X INTO THE PALETTE REGISTERS
       1246     E60C BD E7 B2        LE60C    JSR   LE7B2                             EVALUATE TWO EXPRESSIONS, NORMALLY A HORIZONTAL & VERTICAL COORDINATE
       1247     E60F 8E FF B0                 LDX   #PALETREG                         POINT TO THE GIME CHIP'S PALETTE REGISTERS
       1248     E612 10 8E E6 78              LDY   #IM.PALET                         POINT TO THE RAM IMAGE OF THE PALETTE REGISTERS




                                                                                   B13
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                                                APPENDIX B                                                                 ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                    DISASSEMBLY OF SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 1.1                                     REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




       1249     E616 96 2C                      LDA     BINVAL+1                            GET THE NUMBER OF THE PALETTE REGISTER TO CHANGE
       1250     E618 81 10                      CMPA    #16                                 16 PALETTE REGISTERS MAXIMUM
       1251     E61A 10 24 CE 2C                LBCC    ILLFUNC                             ILLEGAL FUNCTION CALLERROR IF PALETTE REGISTER > 15
       1252     E61E 30 86                      LEAX    A,X                                 POINT TO THE SELECTED PALETTE REGISTER
       1253     E620 31 A6                      LEAY    A,Y                                 POINT TO THE SELECTED PALETTE REGISTER RAM IMAGE
       1254     E622 D6 C0                      LDB     VERBEG+1                            GET THE NEW COLOR FOR THE PALETTE REGISTER
       1255     E624 C1 3F                      CMPB    #63                                 MAXIMUM OF 64 COLORS (ZERO IS A LEGIT COLOR)
       1256     E626 23 02                      BLS     LE62A                               BRANCH IF LEGITIMATE COLOR SELECTED
       1257     E628 C6 3F                      LDB     #63                                 USE COLOR 63 IF BAD COLOR NUMBER SELECTED
       1258     E62A 1A 50             LE62A    ORCC    #$50                                DISABLE INTERRUPTS
       1259     E62C 13                         SYNC                                        WAIT FOR AN INTERRUPT TO CHANGE PALETTE REGISTERS - THIS WILL
       1260                                                                                 PREVENT THE SCREEN FROM FLASHING WHEN THE CHANGE IS MADE.
       1261     E62D E7 84                      STB   ,X                                    SAVE THE NEW COLOR IN THE PALETTE REGISTER
       1262     E62F E7 A4                      STB   ,Y                                    SAVE THE NEW COLOR IN THE PALETTE REGISTER RAM IMAGE
       1263     E631 1C AF                      ANDCC #$AF                                  ENABLE IRQ, FIRQ INTERRUPTS
       1264     E633 39                         RTS
       1265
       1266     E634 34 10             LE634    PSHS    X                                   SAVE THE SOURCE REGISTER POINTER
       1267     E636 10 8E E6 78                LDY     #IM.PALET                           POINT TO THE PALETTE REGISTER RAM IMAGE
       1268     E63A 8D 0C                      BSR     LE648                               COPY THE SOURCE PALETTE REGISTER TO THE RAM IMAGE
       1269     E63C 35 10                      PULS    X                                   RESTORE THE SOURCE REGISTER POINTER
       1270     E63E 10 8E FF B0                LDY     #PALETREG                           POINT TO THE PALETTE REGISTERS
       1271     E642 1A 50                      ORCC    #$50                                DIABLE INTERRUPTS
       1272     E644 13                         SYNC                                        COPY IMMEDIATELY AFTER AN INTERRUPT TO PREVENT SPARKING
       1273     E645 8D 01                      BSR     LE648                               COPY THE SOURCE REGISTER DATE INTO THE PALETTE REGISTERS
       1274     E647 39                         RTS
       1275
       1276     E648 C6 0F             LE648    LDB     #16-1                               NUMBER OF BYTES TO COPY - BUG - SHOULD BE 16
       1277     E64A A6 80             LE64A    LDA     ,X+                                 GET A BYTE
       1278     E64C A7 A0                      STA     ,Y+                                 MOVE IT
       1279     E64E 5A                         DECB                                        BUMP COUNTER DOWN ONE
       1280     E64F 26 F9                      BNE     LE64A                               LOOP UNTIL DONE
       1281     E651 1C AF                      ANDCC   #$AF                                ENABLE IRQ, FIRQ INTERRUPTS
       1282     E653 39                         RTS
       1283
       1284                            * PALETTE COLORS FOR A COMPOSITE MONITOR
       1285     E654 12 24 0B 07 3F 1F IM.CMP   FCB   18,36,11,7,63,31
       1286     E65A 09 26 00 12 00 3F          FCB   9,38,0,18,0,63
       1287     E660 00 12 00 26                FCB   0,18,0,38
       1288
       1289                            * PALETTE COLORS FOR AN RGB MONITOR
       1290     E664 12 36 09 24 3F 1B IM.RGB   FCB   18,54,9,36,63,27
       1291     E66A 2D 26 00 12 00 3F          FCB   45,38,0,18,0,63
       1292     E670 00 12 00 26                FCB   0,18,0,38
       1293
       1294     E674 20 84             RGB      BRA     LE5FA
       1295
       1296     E676 20 8E             CMP      BRA     LE606
       1297
       1298                            * MASTER IMAGES USED TO PROGRAM THE CUSTOM CHIP'S PALETTE REGISTERS
       1299     E678 12 24 0B 07 3F 1F IM.PALET FCB   18,36,11,7,63,31
       1300     E67E 09 26 00 12 00 3F          FCB   9,38,0,18,0,63
       1301     E684 00 12 00 26                FCB   0,18,0,38
       1302
       1303                            * HSCREEN
       1304     E688 81 00             HSCREEN CMPA     #$00                                CHECK FOR END OF LINE
       1305     E68A 10 21 19 72                LBRN    RAMLINK                             RAM HOOK
       1306     E68E 26 03                      BNE     LE693                               BRANCH IF NOT END OF LINE
       1307     E690 5F                         CLRB                                        IF END OF LINE, SET ARGUMENT TO ZERO
       1308     E691 20 09                      BRA     LE69C                               SET THE HSCREEN MODE
       1309     E693 BD B7 0B          LE693    JSR     EVALEXPB                            EVALUATE EXPRESSION, RETURN VALUE IN ACCB
       1310     E696 C1 04                      CMPB    #$04                                ONLY 4 HSCREEN MODES ALLOWED
       1311     E698 10 22 CD AE                LBHI    ILLFUNC                             ILLEGAL FUNCTION CALL ERROR
       1312     E69C D7 E6             LE69C    STB     HRMODE                              SAVE THE HI-RES GRAPHICS MODE
       1313     E69E C1 00                      CMPB    #$00                                CHECK FOR MODE 0
       1314     E6A0 26 03                      BNE     LE6A5                               BRANCH IF NOT HSCREEN 0
       1315     E6A2 7E E0 19                   JMP     SETTEXT                             SETUP THE VIDEO MODE REGISTERS FOR COCO COMPATIBLE MODE
       1316     E6A5 D7 E6             LE6A5    STB     HRMODE                              SAVE THE HI-RES GRAPHICS MODE
       1317     E6A7 8E E6 CB                   LDX     #LE6CB                              POINT TO THE TABLE OF NUMBER OF BYTES/HORIZONTAL ROW
       1318     E6AA C0 01                      SUBB    #$01                                CONVERT THE HI-RES MODE FROM 1-4 TO 0-3
       1319     E6AC A6 85                      LDA     B,X                                 GET THE NUMBER OF BYTES/HORIZONTAL ROW
       1320     E6AE 97 B9                      STA     HORBYT                              AND SAVE IT
       1321     E6B0 C1 01                      CMPB    #$01                                ONE OF THE FIRST TWO MODES?
       1322     E6B2 2E 05                      BGT     LE6B9                               BRANCH IF NOT
       1323     E6B4 CC 00 A0                   LDD     #160                                HORIZONTAL CENTER OF 320 COORDINATE SCREEN
       1324     E6B7 20 03                      BRA     LE6BC
       1325     E6B9 CC 01 40          LE6B9    LDD     #320                                HORIZONTAL CENTER OF 640 COORDINATE SCREEN
       1326     E6BC DD C7             LE6BC    STD     HORDEF                              SAVE AS HORIZONTAL DEFAULT COORD
       1327     E6BE CC 00 60                   LDD     #96                                 VERTICAL CENTER COORDINATE
       1328     E6C1 DD C9                      STD     VERDEF                              SAVE AS VERTICAL DEFAULT
       1329     E6C3 F6 FE 0B                   LDB     H.BCOLOR                            GET THE BACKGROUND COLOR
       1330     E6C6 8D 10                      BSR     CLRHIRES                            CLEAR THE HI-RES GRAPHICS SCREEN TO THE BACKGROUND COLOR
       1331     E6C8 7E E0 4D                   JMP     SETGRAPH                            GROGRAM THE VIDEO RESOLUTION MODE
       1332
       1333                            * TABLE OF THE NUMBER OF BYTES PER HORIZONTAL ROW FOR EACH HSCREEN MODE
       1334     E6CB 50 A0 50 A0       LE6CB    FCB   80,160,80,160
       1335
       1336                            * HCLS
       1337     E6CF 26 05             HCLS     BNE     LE6D6                               BRANCH IF NOT END OF LINE
       1338     E6D1 F6 FE 0B                   LDB     H.BCOLOR                            GET THE BACKGROUND COLOR
       1339     E6D4 20 02                      BRA     CLRHIRES                            CLEAR THE SCREEN TO THE BACKGROUND COLOR
       1340     E6D6 8D 36             LE6D6    BSR     LE70E                               EVALUATE AN EXPRESSION, SYNTAX CHECK FOR NOT > 16
       1341
       1342                            * CLEAR THE HI-RES GRAPHICS SCREEN TO THE COLOR IN ACCB
       1343     E6D8 0D E6             CLRHIRES TST   HRMODE                            CHECK THE HI-RES MODE
       1344     E6DA 27 13                      BEQ   LE6EF                             HR' ERROR IF IN THE 32 COLUMN MODE




                                                                                     B14
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                                              APPENDIX B                                                                ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                  DISASSEMBLY OF SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 1.1                                    REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




       1345     E6DC 8D 64                    BSR   PIXELFIL                          FILL ACCB WITH THE SELECTED COLOR
       1346     E6DE BD E1 19                 JSR   SELTASK1                          SELECT TASK REGISTER 1 AS THE ACTIVE TASK REGISTER
       1347                          * FILL MEMORY FROM HRESSCRN TO $A000 WITH ACCB; THIS IS THE HI-RES GRAPHICS SCREEN
       1348     E6E1 8E 20 00                 LDX   #HRESSCRN                         POINT TO START OF HI-RES GRAPHICS SCREEN
       1349     E6E4 E7 80           LE6E4    STB   ,X+                               'CLEAR' A BYTE
       1350     E6E6 8C A0 00                 CMPX #BASIC                             CHECK FOR END OF THE HI-RES GRAPHICS SCREEN
       1351     E6E9 26 F9                    BNE   LE6E4                             KEEP 'CLEARING' UNTIL DONE
       1352     E6EB BD E0 FF                 JSR   SELTASK0                          SET TASK REGISTER 0 AS THE ACTIVE TASK REGISTER
       1353     E6EE 39                       RTS
       1354     E6EF C6 4C           LE6EF    LDB   #38*2                             'HR' ERROR
       1355     E6F1 7E AC 46                 JMP   LAC46                             JUMP TO THE ERROR HANDLER
       1356
       1357                          * HCOLOR
       1358     E6F4 81 2C           HCOLOR   CMPA   #','                                 CHECK FOR COMMA, FIRST ARGUMENT NOT GIVEN
       1359     E6F6 10 21 19 06              LBRN   RAMLINK                              RAM HOOK
       1360     E6FA 27 09                    BEQ    LE705                                BRANCH IF FIRST ARGUMENT NOT GIVEN
       1361     E6FC 8D 10                    BSR    LE70E                                EVALUATE EXPRESSION, SYNTAX CHECK FOR EXPRESSION > 16
       1362     E6FE F7 FE 0A                 STB    H.FCOLOR                             SAVE THE NEW FORGROUND COLOR
       1363     E701 9D A5                    JSR    GETCCH                               GET BASIC'S CURRENT INPUT CHARACTER
       1364     E703 27 08                    BEQ    LE70D                                BRANCH IF END OF LINE, NO BACKGROUND COLOR GIVEN
       1365     E705 BD B2 6D        LE705    JSR    SYNCOMMA                             DO A SYNTAX CHECK FOR A COMMA
       1366     E708 8D 04                    BSR    LE70E                                EVALUATE EXPRESSION, SYNTAX CHECK FOR EXPRESSION > 16
       1367     E70A F7 FE 0B                 STB    H.BCOLOR                             SAVE THE NEW BACKGROUND COLOR
       1368     E70D 39              LE70D    RTS
       1369
       1370     E70E BD B7 0B        LE70E    JSR    EVALEXPB                             EVALUATE EXPRESSION, RETURN VALUE IN ACCB
       1371     E711 C1 10           LE711    CMPB   #16                                  MAXIMUM OF 16 DIFFERENT COLORS
       1372     E713 10 24 CD 33              LBCC   ILLFUNC                              ILLEGAL FUNCTION CALL ERROR
       1373     E717 39                       RTS
       1374
       1375     E718 BD E7 31        LE718    JSR    LE731                                SET THE WORKING COLOR AND ALL PIXEL BYTES TO DEFAULT VALUES
       1376     E71B 9D A5                    JSR    GETCCH                               GET BASIC'S CURRENT INPUT CHARACTER
       1377     E71D 27 10                    BEQ    LE72F                                BRANCH IF END OF LINE
       1378     E71F 81 29                    CMPA   #')'                                 SYNTAX CHECK FOR ')'
       1379     E721 27 0C                    BEQ    LE72F                                EXIT IF ')'
       1380     E723 BD B2 6D                 JSR    SYNCOMMA                             DO A SYNTAX CHECK FOR A COMMA
       1381     E726 81 2C                    CMPA   #','                                 SYNTAX CHECK FOR A COMMA
       1382     E728 27 05                    BEQ    LE72F                                USE DEFAULT COLORS IF TWO COMMAS
       1383     E72A BD E7 0E                 JSR    LE70E                                EVALUATE COLOR ARGUMENT
       1384     E72D 8D 0C                    BSR    LE73B                                SET THE WORKING AND ALL COLOR BYTES TO THE COLOR ARGUMENT
       1385     E72F 0E A5           LE72F    JMP    GETCCH                               GET BASIC'S CURRENT INPUT CHARACTER AND RETURN
       1386
       1387     E731 F6 FE 0A        LE731    LDB    H.FCOLOR                             GET THE FOREGOUND COLOR
       1388     E734 0D C2                    TST    SETFLG                               TEST THE HSET/HRESET FLAG
       1389     E736 26 03                    BNE    LE73B                                BRANCH IF HSET
       1390     E738 F6 FE 0B                 LDB    H.BCOLOR                             GET THE BACKGROUND COLOR IF HRESET
       1391     E73B D7 B4           LE73B    STB    WCOLOR                               SAVE THE NEW WORKING COLOR
       1392     E73D 8D 03                    BSR    PIXELFIL                             FILL ALL PIXELS IN A BYTE WITH THE WORKING COLOR
       1393     E73F D7 B5                    STB    ALLCOL                               SAVE THE FILLED WITH WORKING COLOR BYTE
       1394     E741 39                       RTS
       1395
       1396                          * FILL ACCB WITH PIXELS OF THE COLOR CONTAINED IN ACCB
       1397     E742 34 10           PIXELFIL PSHS X
       1398     E744 96 E6                    LDA   HRMODE                            GET THE HI-RES GRAPHICS MODE
       1399     E746 80 01                    SUBA #$01                               CONVERT 1-4 TO 0-3
       1400     E748 8E E7 59                 LDX   #LE759                            POINT TO THE TABLE OF PIXEL MASKS
       1401     E74B E4 86                    ANDB A,X                                KEEP ONLY ONE PIXEL'S WORTH OF COLOR INFORMATION
       1402     E74D 96 E6                    LDA   HRMODE                            * BOTH OF THESE INSTRUCTIONS
       1403     E74F 80 01                    SUBA #$01                               * ARE SUPERFLUOUS
       1404     E751 8E E7 5D                 LDX   #LE75D                            POINT TO THE TABLE OF MULTIPLIERS
       1405     E754 A6 86                    LDA   A,X                               GET THE APPROPRIATE MULTIPLIER
       1406     E756 3D                       MUL                                     NOW THE COLOR INFORMATION IS IN EVERY PIXEL IN THE BYTE
       1407     E757 35 90                    PULS X,PC
       1408
       1409                          * PIXEL MASKS FOR THE HI-RES GRAPHICS MODES
       1410     E759 03 0F 01 03     LE759    FCB   $03,$0F,$01,$03
       1411
       1412                          * MULTIPLIERS TO SPREAD HI-RES PIXELS THROUGH AN ENTIRE BYTE
       1413     E75D 55 11 FF 55     LE75D    FCB   $55,$11,$FF,$55
       1414
       1415                          * HSET
       1416     E761 86 01           HSET     LDA    #$01                                 HSET FLAG
       1417     E763 20 05                    BRA    LE76A
       1418
       1419                          * HRESET
       1420     E765 4F              HRESET   CLRA                                        HRESET FLAG
       1421     E766 10 21 18 96              LBRN   RAMLINK
       1422     E76A 0D E6           LE76A    TST    HRMODE                               IS THE HI-RES GRAPHICS MODE ENABLED?
       1423     E76C 27 81                    BEQ    LE6EF                                HR' ERROR IF HI-RES MODE NOT ENABLED
       1424     E76E 97 C2                    STA    SETFLG                               SAVE THE HSET/HRESET FLAG
       1425     E770 BD B2 6A                 JSR    LB26A                                SYNTAX CHECK FOR '('
       1426     E773 BD E7 AA                 JSR    LE7AA                                EVALUATE TWO EXPRESSIONS
       1427     E776 0D C2                    TST    SETFLG                               CHECK THE HSER/HRESET FLAG
       1428     E778 26 05                    BNE    LE77F                                BRANCH IF HSET
       1429     E77A BD E7 31                 JSR    LE731                                SET THE WORKING COLOR AND ALL PIXEL BYTE
       1430     E77D 20 03                    BRA    LE782
       1431     E77F BD E7 18        LE77F    JSR    LE718                                GET THE HSET COLOR
       1432     E782 BD B2 67        LE782    JSR    LB267                                SYNTAX CHECK FOR ')'
       1433     E785 BD E7 DA                 JSR    HCALPOS                              LOAD X WITH PIXEL BYTE ADDRESS; ACCA WITH PIXEL MASK
       1434     E788 BD E1 19        LE788    JSR    SELTASK1                             MAKE TASK REGISTER 1 THE ACTIVE TASK REGISTER
       1435     E78B BD E7 92                 JSR    LE792                                SET OR RESET A PIXEL
       1436     E78E BD E0 FF                 JSR    SELTASK0                             RESET TASK REGISTER 0 TO BE THE ACTIVE TASK REGISTER
       1437     E791 39                       RTS
       1438
       1439                          * HSET/HRESET A PIXEL; ENTER W/X POINTING TO THE BYTE CONTAINING THE PIXEL AND
       1440                          * ACCA POINTING TO THE MASK FOR THE PROPER PIXEL




                                                                                   B15
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                                                  APPENDIX B                                                                 ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                      DISASSEMBLY OF SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 1.1                                     REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




       1441     E792 E6 84             LE792    LDB   ,X                                GET THE BYTE WHICH CONTAINS THE PIXEL
       1442     E794 34 04                      PSHS B                                  AND SAVE IT ON THE STACK
       1443     E796 1F 89                      TFR   A,B                               COPY THE MASK TO ACCB
       1444     E798 43                         COMA                                    INVERT THE MASK
       1445     E799 A4 84                      ANDA ,X                                 ERASE OLD PIXEL DATA
       1446     E79B D4 B5                      ANDB ALLCOL                             FORCE THE PIXEL MASK TO BE THE CORRECT COLOR
       1447     E79D 34 04                      PSHS B                                  AND SAVE THE 'COLORED' DATA ON THE STACK
       1448     E79F AA E0                      ORA   ,S+                               REPLACE THE 'ERASED' PIXEL WITH THE NEW COLOR DATA
       1449     E7A1 A7 84                      STA   ,X                                AND SAVE IT IN THE SCREEN MEMORY
       1450     E7A3 A0 E0                      SUBA ,S+                                ACCA=0 IF OLD AND NEW PIXELS WERE IDENTICAL
       1451     E7A5 9A DB                      ORA   CHGFLG                            SET CHGFLG <> 0 IF THE PIXEL WAS CHANGED
       1452     E7A7 97 DB                      STA   CHGFLG                            SAVE THE 'CHANGED' STATUS
       1453     E7A9 39                         RTS
       1454     E7AA BD E7 B2          LE7AA    JSR   LE7B2                             EVALUATE TWO EXPRESSIONS
       1455     E7AD CE 00 BD          LE7AD    LDU   #HORBEG                           POINT U TO EVALUATED COORDINATES' STORAGE LOCATIONS
       1456                            * THE 'NORMALIZATION' ($9320) ROUTINE FROM EXTENDED BASIC WENT HERE - IT IS NOT NEEDED
       1457                            * IN ENHANCED BASIC SO IT WAS REPLACED WITH AN RTS.
       1458     E7B0 39                LE7B0    RTS
       1459     E7B1 39                         RTS                                     WASTED BYTE
       1460
       1461                            * EVALUATE TWO EXPRESSIONS - NORMALLY A HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL COORDINATE
       1462                            * PERFORM COORDINATE SYNTAX RANGE CHECKS ON THE EXPRESSIONS
       1463     E7B2 BD B7 34          LE7B2    JSR   LB734                             EVALUATE TWO EXPRESSIONS; RETURN 1ST VALUE IN BINVAL, SECOND IN ACCB
       1464     E7B5 10 8E 00 BD                LDY   #HORBEG                           POINT TO THE COORDINATE STORAGE VARIABLES
       1465     E7B9 C1 C0             LE7B9    CMPB #192                               CHECK FOR MAXIMUM VERTICAL COORDINATE
       1466     E7BB 25 02                      BCS   LE7BF                             BRANCH IF WITHIN RANGE
       1467     E7BD C6 BF                      LDB   #192-1                            FORCE TO MAXIMUM VALUE IF OUT OF RANGE
       1468     E7BF 4F                LE7BF    CLRA                                    CLEAR THE MOST SIGNIFICANT BYTE OF ACCD
       1469     E7C0 ED 22                      STD   $02,Y                             SAVE THE VERTICAL COORDINATE
       1470     E7C2 96 E6                      LDA   HRMODE                            GET THE HI-RES GRAPHICS MODE
       1471     E7C4 81 02                      CMPA #$02                               IS MAXIMUM PIXEL WIDTH=320?
       1472     E7C6 2E 05                      BGT   LE7CD                             NO
       1473     E7C8 CC 01 3F                   LDD   #320-1                            LOAD ACCD WITH MAXIMUM HORIZONTAL COORDINATE FORE 320 PIXEL WIDE
       1474     E7CB 20 03                      BRA   LE7D0                             DO THE HORIZONTAL RANGE CHECK
       1475     E7CD CC 02 7F          LE7CD    LDD   #640-1                            LOAD ACCD WITH MAXIMUM HORIZONTAL COORDINATE FORE 640 PIXEL WIDE
       1476     E7D0 10 93 2B          LE7D0    CMPD BINVAL                             IS THE HORIZONTAL COORDINATE > MAXIMUM VALUE?
       1477     E7D3 25 02                      BCS   LE7D7                             YES, USE THE MAXIMUM HORIZONTAL COORDINATE
       1478     E7D5 DC 2B                      LDD   BINVAL                            GET THE NEW HORIZONTAL COORDINATE
       1479     E7D7 ED A4             LE7D7    STD   ,Y                                SAVE THE HORIZONTAL COORDINATE
       1480     E7D9 39                         RTS
       1481
       1482                            * THIS ROUTINE WILL CONVERT THE X,Y COORDINATES OF A PIXEL INTO THE SCREEN ADDRESS (X REG) AND
       1483                            * PIXEL OFFSET (ACCA) OF THE BYTE ON THE SCREEN CONTAINING THE PIXEL.
       1484     E7DA 8D 0A             HCALPOS BSR    LE7E6                             POINT U TO THE HCALPOS SUBROUTINE FOR THE CURRENT HRMODE
       1485     E7DC 6E C4                      JMP   ,U                                EXECUTE THE HCALPOS SUBROUTINE
       1486
       1487                            * CALTABLE
       1488     E7DE E8 20 E8 3F E7 FF CALTABLE FDB     G2BITBIX,G4BITPIX,G1BITPIX
       1489     E7E4 E8 20                      FDB     G2BITBIX
       1490
       1491                            * POINT U TO THE PROPER CALPOS SUBROUTINE
       1492     E7E6 CE E7 DE          LE7E6    LDU   #CALTABLE                               POINT U TO THE CALPOS ADDRESS TABLE
       1493     E7E9 96 E6                      LDA   HRMODE                                  GET THE HI-RS GRAPHICS MODE
       1494     E7EB 80 01                      SUBA #$01                                     (DECA WOULD DO) CONVERT FROM 1-4 TO 0-3
       1495     E7ED 48                         ALSA                                          X2 BYTES PER ADDRESS
       1496     E7EE EE C6                      LDU   A,U                                     GET THE APPROPRIATE CALPOS ADDRESS FROM THE TABLE
       1497     E7F0 39                         RTS
       1498
       1499                            * TABLE OF 1 BIT PIXEL MASKS
       1500     E7F1 80 40 20 10 08 04 PIX1MASK FCB   $80,$40,$20,$10,$08,$04
       1501     E7F7 02 01                      FCB   $02,$01
       1502
       1503                            * TABLE OF 2 BIT PIXEL MASKS
       1504     E7F9 C0 30 0C 03       PIX2MASK FCB   $C0,$30,$0C,$03
       1505
       1506                            * TABLE OF 4 BIT PIXEL MASKS
       1507     E7FD F0 0F             PIX4MASK FCB   $F0,$0F
       1508
       1509                            **************
       1510
       1511                            * CONVERT HORIZONTAL, VERTICAL COORDINATES INTO THE ADDRESS (X) FOR THE BYTE WHICH CONTAINS THE DESIRED
       1512                            * PIXEL AND A MASK (ACCA) WHICH HAS ONLY THOSE BITS WHICH CORRESPOND TO THE DESIRED PIXEL
       1513
       1514     E7FF 34 44             G1BITPIX PSHS    U,B                                   SAVE REGISTERS
       1515     E801 D6 B9                      LDB     HORBYT                                GET THE NUMBER OF BYTES PER HORIZONTAL ROW
       1516     E803 96 C0                      LDA     VERBEG+1                              GET THE VERTICAL COORDINATE
       1517     E805 3D                         MUL                                           NOW ACCD CONTAINS THE ROW OFFSET IN BYTES FROM THE TOP OF SCREEN
       1518     E806 C3 20 00                   ADDD    #HRESSCRN                             ADD THE ROW OFFSET TO THE START OF THE SCREEN
       1519     E809 1F 01                      TFR     D,X                                   X CONTAINS THE ADDRESS OF THE START OF THE ROW CONTAINING A PIXEL
       1520     E80B DC BD                      LDD     HORBEG                                GET THE HORIZONTAL COORDINATE
       1521     E80D 44                         LSRA
       1522     E80E 56                         RORB
       1523     E80F 44                         LSRA
       1524     E810 56                         RORB
       1525     E811 44                         LSRA                                          * DIVIDE HORIZONTAL COORDINATE BY EIGHT - THERE ARE 8 PIXELS PER BYTE
       1526     E812 56                         RORB                                          * ACCD CONTAINS THE COLUMN OFFSET TO THE PIXEL IN BYTES
       1527     E813 30 8B                      LEAX    D,X                                   ADD THE COLUMN OFFSET - X POINTS TO THE BYTE CONTAINING THE PIXEL
       1528     E815 96 BE                      LDA     HORBEG+1                              GET THE LEAST SIGNIFICANT BYTE OF THE HORIZONTAL COORDINATE
       1529     E817 84 07                      ANDA    #$07                                  KEEP BITS 0-2 WHICH ARE THE PIXEL POSITION IN THE BYTE
       1530     E819 CE E7 F1                   LDU     #PIX1MASK                             POINT TO THE TABLE OF TWO COLOR PIXEL MASKS
       1531     E81C A6 C6                      LDA     A,U                                   GET THE CORRECT PIXEL MASK
       1532     E81E 35 C4                      PULS    B,U,PC                                RESTORE THE REGISTERS
       1533
       1534     E820 34 44             G2BITBIX PSHS    U,B                                   SAVE REGISTERS
       1535     E822 D6 B9                      LDB     HORBYT                                GET THE NUMBER OF BYTES/ROW
       1536     E824 96 C0                      LDA     VERBEG+1                              GET THE VERTICAL COORDINATE




                                                                                       B16
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                                             APPENDIX B                                                               ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                 DISASSEMBLY OF SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 1.1                                   REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




       1537     E826 3D                      MUL                                         NOW ACCD CONTAINS THE ROW OFFSET IN BYTES FROM THE TOP OF SCREEN
       1538     E827 C3 20 00                ADDD    #HRESSCRN                           ADD THE ROW OFFSET TO THE START OF THE SCREEN
       1539     E82A 1F 01                   TFR     D,X                                 X CONTAINS THE ADDRESS OF THE START OF THE ROW CONTAINING A PIXEL
       1540     E82C DC BD                   LDD     HORBEG                              GET THE HORIZONTAL COORDINATE
       1541     E82E 44                      LSRA
       1542     E82F 56                      RORB
       1543     E830 44                      LSRA                                        * DIVIDE HORIZONTAL COORDINATE BY FOUR - THERE ARE 4 PIXELS PER BYTE
       1544     E831 56                      RORB                                        * ACCD CONTAINS THE COLUMN OFFSET TO THE PIXEL IN BYTES
       1545     E832 30 8B                   LEAX    D,X                                 ADD THE COLUMN OFFSET - X POINTS TO THE BYTE CONTAINING THE PIXEL
       1546     E834 96 BE                   LDA     HORBEG+1                            GET THE LEAST SIGNIFICANT BYTE OF THE HORIZONTAL COORDINATE
       1547     E836 84 03                   ANDA    #$03                                KEEP BITS 0,1 WHICH ARE THE PIXEL POSITION IN THE BYTE
       1548     E838 CE E7 F9                LDU     #PIX2MASK                           POINT TO THE TABLE OF FOUR COLOR PIXEL MASKS
       1549     E83B A6 C6                   LDA     A,U                                 GET THE CORRECT PIXEL MASK
       1550     E83D 35 C4                   PULS    B,U,PC                              RESTORE THE REGISTERS
       1551
       1552     E83F 34 44           G4BITPIX PSHS   U,B                                 SAVE REGISTERS
       1553     E841 D6 B9                    LDB    HORBYT                              GET THE NUMBER OF BYTES/ROW
       1554     E843 96 C0                    LDA    VERBEG+1                            GET THE VERTICAL COORDINATE
       1555     E845 3D                       MUL                                        NOW ACCD CONTAINS THE ROW OFFSET IN BYTES FROM THE TOP OF SCREEN
       1556     E846 C3 20 00                 ADDD   #HRESSCRN                           ADD THE ROW OFFSET TO THE START OF THE SCREEN
       1557     E849 1F 01                    TFR    D,X                                 X CONTAINS THE ADDRESS OF THE START OF THE ROW CONTAINING A PIXEL
       1558     E84B DC BD                    LDD    HORBEG                              GET THE HORIZONTAL COORDINATE
       1559     E84D 44                       LSRA                                       * DIVIDE HORIZONTAL COORDINATE BY TWO - THERE ARE 2 PIXELS PER BYTE
       1560     E84E 56                       RORB                                       * ACCD CONTAINS THE COLUMN OFFSET TO THE PIXEL IN BYTES
       1561     E84F 30 8B                    LEAX   D,X                                 ADD THE COLUMN OFFSET - X POINTS TO THE BYTE CONTAINING THE PIXEL
       1562     E851 96 BE                    LDA    HORBEG+1                            GET THE LEAST SIGNIFICANT BYTE OF THE HORIZONTAL COORDINATE
       1563     E853 84 01                    ANDA   #$01                                KEEP BITS 0 WHICH IS THE PIXEL POSITION IN THE BYTE
       1564     E855 CE E7 FD                 LDU    #PIX4MASK                           POINT TO THE TABLE OF 16 COLOR PIXEL MASKS
       1565     E858 A6 C6                    LDA    A,U                                 GET THE CORRECT PIXEL MASK
       1566     E85A 35 C4                    PULS   B,U,PC                              RESTORE THE REGISTERS
       1567
       1568                          * HPOINT
       1569     E85C 0D E6           HPOINT   TST    HRMODE                              CHECK FOR HI-RES GRAPHICS MODE
       1570     E85E 10 27 FE 8D              LBEQ   LE6EF                               'HR' ERROR IF NOT GRAPHICS
       1571     E862 BD B2 6A                 JSR    LB26A                               SYNTAX CHECK FOR '('
       1572     E865 BD E7 AA                 JSR    LE7AA                               EVALUATE TWO EXPRESSIONS (X,Y COORDS)
       1573     E868 BD B2 67                 JSR    LB267                               SYNTAX CHECK FOR ')'
       1574     E86B BD E1 19                 JSR    SELTASK1                            SELECT TASK REGSTER 1
       1575     E86E BD E7 DA                 JSR    HCALPOS                             POINT X TO PIXEL, ACCA CONTAINS MASK
       1576     E871 1F 89                    TFR    A,B                                 PUT MASK IN ACCB
       1577     E873 E4 84                    ANDB   ,X                                  MASK OFF ALL BUT DESIRED PIXEL
       1578     E875 44              LE875    LSRA                                       SHIFT MASK TO THE RIGHT
       1579     E876 25 03                    BCS    LE87B                               STOP SHIFTING IF DATA IS RIGHT JUSTIFIED
       1580     E878 54                       LSRB                                       SHIFT PIXEL TO THE RIGHT
       1581     E879 20 FA                    BRA    LE875                               KEEP SHIFTING UNTIL DATA IS RIGHT JUSTIFIED
       1582     E87B BD B4 F3        LE87B    JSR    LB4F3                               CONVERT ACCB INTO A FLOATING POINT NUMBER
       1583     E87E BD E0 FF                 JSR    SELTASK0                            SELECT TASK REGISTER 0
       1584     E881 39                       RTS
       1585
       1586                          * HLINE
       1587     E882 0D E6           HLINE   TST     HRMODE                              CHECK HI-RES GRAPHICS MODE
       1588     E884 10 27 FE 67             LBEQ    LE6EF                               'HR' ERROR IF NOT GRAPHICS
       1589     E888 10 21 17 74             LBRN    RAMLINK                             RAM HOOK
       1590     E88C 81 28                   CMPA    #'('                                CHECK FOR '('
       1591     E88E 27 09                   BEQ     LE899                               GO LOOK FOR START AND END POINTS
       1592     E890 81 AC                   CMPA    #$AC                                CHECK FOR MINUS SIGN TOKEN
       1593     E892 27 05                   BEQ     LE899                               BRANCH IF NO STARTING POINTS GIVEN
       1594     E894 C6 40                   LDB     #'@'                                CHECK FOR '@' SIGN
       1595     E896 BD B2 6F                JSR     LB26F                               GO DO A SYNTAX CHECK
       1596     E899 BD E9 E1        LE899   JSR     LE9E1                               GET STARTING AND ENDING COORDINATES
       1597     E89C 9E C3                   LDX     HOREND                              GET ENDING HORIZONTAL COORDINATE
       1598     E89E 9F C7                   STX     HORDEF                              PUT IN LAST USED HORIZONTAL END POINT
       1599     E8A0 9E C5                   LDX     VEREND                              GET ENDING VERTICAL COORDINATE
       1600     E8A2 9F C9                   STX     VERDEF                              PUT IN LAST USED VERTICAL END POINT
       1601     E8A4 BD B2 6D                JSR     SYNCOMMA                            DO A SYNTAX CHECK FOR A COMMA
       1602     E8A7 81 BE                   CMPA    #$BE                                PRESET TOKEN?
       1603     E8A9 27 09                   BEQ     LE8B4                               BRANCK IF YES
       1604     E8AB 81 BD                   CMPA    #$BD                                PSET TOKEN?
       1605     E8AD 10 26 C9 C6             LBNE    LB277                               'SYNTAX' ERROR IF NOT PSET OR PRESET
       1606     E8B1 C6 01                   LDB     #$01                                PSET FLAG
       1607     E8B3 86              LE8B3   FCB     SKP1LD                              OP CODE FOR LDA #; EFFECTIVELY SKIP NEXT INSTRUCTION
       1608     E8B4 5F              LE8B4   CLRB                                        PRESET FLAG
       1609     E8B5 34 04                   PSHS    B                                   SAVE PSET/PRESET FLAG
       1610     E8B7 9D 9F                   JSR     GETNCH                              GET NEXT CHARACTER FROM BASIC'S INPUT LINE
       1611     E8B9 BD EA 0D                JSR     LEA0D                               NORMALIZE START/END COORDS
       1612     E8BC 35 04                   PULS    B                                   GET PSET/PRESET FLAG
       1613     E8BE D7 C2                   STB     SETFLG                              SAVE IT
       1614     E8C0 BD E7 31                JSR     LE731                               SET ACTIVE COLOR BYTE
       1615     E8C3 9D A5                   JSR     GETCCH                              GET BASIC'S CURRENT INPUT CHARACTER
       1616     E8C5 10 27 00 85             LBEQ    LE94E                               BRANCH IF NO BOX TO BE DRAWN
       1617     E8C9 BD B2 6D                JSR     SYNCOMMA                            DO A SYNTAX CHECK FOR A COMMA
       1618     E8CC C6 42                   LDB     #'B'                                DRAW A BOX?
       1619     E8CE BD B2 6F                JSR     LB26F                               GO DO A SYNTAX CHECK FOR A 'B'
       1620     E8D1 26 18                   BNE     LE8EB                               FOUND A 'B' AND SOMETHING FOLLOWS
       1621     E8D3 8D 31                   BSR     LE906                               DRAW A HORIZONTAL LINE
       1622     E8D5 8D 5A                   BSR     LE931                               DRAW A VERTICAL LINE
       1623     E8D7 9E BD                   LDX     HORBEG                              GET HORIZONTAL START COORD
       1624     E8D9 34 10                   PSHS    X                                   SAVE IT ON THE STACK
       1625     E8DB 9E C3                   LDX     HOREND                              GET HORIZONTAL END COORDINATE
       1626     E8DD 9F BD                   STX     HORBEG                              PUT IN HORIZONTAL START COORDINATE
       1627     E8DF 8D 50                   BSR     LE931                               DRAW A VERTICAL LINE
       1628     E8E1 35 10                   PULS    X                                   GET THE PREVIOUS HORIZONTAL START COORDINATE
       1629     E8E3 9F BD                   STX     HORBEG                              RESTORE IT
       1630     E8E5 9E C5                   LDX     VEREND                              GET VERTICAL END COORDINATE
       1631     E8E7 9F BF                   STX     VERBEG                              PUT INTO START COORD
       1632     E8E9 20 1B                   BRA     LE906                               DRAW A HORIZONTAL LINE




                                                                                  B17
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                                              APPENDIX B                                                               ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                  DISASSEMBLY OF SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 1.1                                   REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




       1633     E8EB C6 46           LE8EB    LDB   #'F'                              CHECK FOR FILL OPTION
       1634     E8ED BD B2 6F                 JSR   LB26F                             GO DO A SYNTAX CHECK FOR AN 'F'
       1635     E8F0 20 04                    BRA   LE8F6                             GO 'FILL' THE BOX
       1636     E8F2 30 1F           LE8F2    LEAX $-01,X                             MOVE VERTICAL COORD UP ONE
       1637     E8F4 9F BF           LE8F4    STX   VERBEG                            SAVE THE NEW VERTICAL START COORDINATE
       1638                          * DRAW A SERIES OF HORIZONTAL LINES FROM VERTICAL START TO VERTICAL END
       1639     E8F6 BD E9 06        LE8F6    JSR   LE906                             DRAW A HORIZONTAL LINE
       1640     E8F9 9E BF                    LDX   VERBEG                            GET START VERTICAL COORD
       1641     E8FB 9C C5                    CMPX VEREND                             COMPARE TO END VERTICAL COORD
       1642     E8FD 27 06                    BEQ   LE905                             RETURN IF EQUAL
       1643     E8FF 24 F1                    BCC   LE8F2                             BRANCH IF START HORIZONTAL > END HORIZONTAL
       1644     E901 30 01                    LEAX $01,X                              MOVE HORIZONTAL COORD DOWN ONE
       1645     E903 20 EF                    BRA   LE8F4                             KEEP DRAWING LINES
       1646     E905 39              LE905    RTS
       1647                          * DRAW A HORIZONTAL LINE FROM HOREND TO HORBEG AT VERTICAL COORD VERBEG; COLOR IN ALLCOL
       1648     E906 9E BD           LE906    LDX   HORBEG                            GET STARTING COORDINATES
       1649     E908 34 10                    PSHS X                                  SAVE 'EM
       1650     E90A BD E9 DB                 JSR   LE9DB                             GET ABSOLUTE VALUE OF HOREND-HORBEG (HORIZONTAL COORD)
       1651     E90D 24 04                    BCC   LE913                             BRANCH IF END > START
       1652     E90F 9E C3                    LDX   HOREND                            GET END COORD
       1653     E911 9F BD                    STX   HORBEG                            MAKE IT THE START COORD
       1654     E913 1F 02           LE913    TFR   D,Y                               SAVE DIFFERENCE IN Y
       1655     E915 31 21                    LEAY $01,Y                              ADD ONE TO DIFFERENCE - TURN ON STARTING AND ENDING COORDS
       1656     E917 BD E7 DA                 JSR   HCALPOS                           GET ABSOLUTE SCREEN ADDRESS IN X AND PIXEL MASK IN ACCA
       1657     E91A 35 40                    PULS U                                  GET START COORDS
       1658     E91C DF BD                    STU   HORBEG                            RESTORE THEM
       1659     E91E 17 00 F5                 LBSR LEA16                              POINT U TO ROUTINE TO MOVE PIXEL POINTERS TO RIGHT
       1660     E921 97 D7           LE921    STA   VD7                               SAVEL PIXEL MASK
       1661     E923 BD E7 88                 JSR   LE788                             TURN ON PIXEL
       1662     E926 96 D7                    LDA   VD7                               GET OLD PIXEL MASK
       1663     E928 AD C4                    JSR   ,U                                MOVE TO NEXT ONE TO RIGHT
       1664     E92A 31 3F                    LEAY $-01,Y                             DEC COUNTER
       1665     E92C 26 F3                    BNE   LE921                             LOOP IF NOT DONE
       1666     E92E 39                       RTS
       1667     E92F 35 06           LE92F    PULS A,B                                CLEAN UP STACK
       1668                          * DRAW A VERTICAL LINE FROM VEREND TO VERBEG AT HORIZONTAL COORD HORBEG
       1669     E931 DC BF           LE931    LDD   VERBEG                            GET END VERTICAL COORDS
       1670     E933 34 06                    PSHS B,A                                SAVE 'EM
       1671     E935 BD E9 CD                 JSR   LE9CD                             CALCULATE ABSOLUTE VALUE OF VEREND-VERBEG
       1672     E938 24 04                    BCC   LE93E                             BRANCH IF END COORD > START COORD
       1673     E93A 9E C5                    LDX   VEREND                            GET VERTICAL END COORDINATE
       1674     E93C 9F BF                    STX   VERBEG                            MAKE IT THE START COORD IF END COORD WAS RIGHT OF START
       1675     E93E 1F 02           LE93E    TFR   D,Y                               LENGTH OF LINE TO Y
       1676     E940 31 21                    LEAY $01,Y                              SET BOTH START AND END COORDS
       1677     E942 BD E7 DA                 JSR   HCALPOS                           GET ABSOLUTE SCREEN ADDRESS IN X AND PIXEL MASK IN ACCA
       1678     E945 35 40                    PULS U                                  GET END COORDS
       1679     E947 DF BF                    STU   VERBEG                            RESTORE THEM
       1680     E949 17 00 D5                 LBSR LEA21                              POINT U TO ROUTINE TO MOVE DOWN ONE ROW
       1681     E94C 20 D3                    BRA   LE921                             DRAW A VERTICAL LINE
       1682
       1683                          * DRAW A LINE FROM (HORBEG, VERBEG) TO (HOREND, VEREND)
       1684     E94E 10 8E E9 B8     LE94E    LDY   #LE9B8                            POINT Y TO INCREMENT VERBEG (VERTICAL START COORD)
       1685     E952 BD E9 CD                 JSR   LE9CD                             CALCULATE VERTICAL DIFFERENCE (VEREND-VERBEG)
       1686     E955 27 AF                    BEQ   LE906                             DRAW A HORIZONTAL LINE IF DELTA V=0
       1687     E957 24 04                    BCC   LE95D                             BRANCH IF VERTICAL END COORD > VERTICAL START COORD
       1688     E959 10 8E E9 C6              LDY   #LE9C6                            POINT Y TO DECR VERTICAL COORD
       1689     E95D 34 06           LE95D    PSHS B,A                                SAVE DELTA V
       1690     E95F CE E9 B1                 LDU   #LE9B1                            POINT U TO INCR HORIZONTAL COORD
       1691     E962 BD E9 DB                 JSR   LE9DB                             CALCULATE HORIZONTAL DIFFERENCE (HOREND-HORBEG)
       1692     E965 27 C8                    BEQ   LE92F                             DRAW A VERTICAL LINE IF DELTA H=0
       1693     E967 24 03                    BCC   LE96C                             BRANCH IF HORIZONTAL END COORD > HORIZONTAL START COORD
       1694     E969 CE E9 BF                 LDU   #LE9BF                            POINT U TO DECR HORIZONTAL COORD
       1695     E96C 10 A3 E4        LE96C    CMPD ,S                                 COMPARE DELTA H TO DELTA V
       1696     E96F 35 10                    PULS X                                  PUT DELTA V IN X
       1697     E971 24 04                    BCC   LE977                             BRANCH IF DELTA H > DELTA V
       1698     E973 1E 32                    EXG   U,Y                               SWAP CHANGE HORIZONTAL AND CHANGE VERTICAL ADDRESS
       1699     E975 1E 01                    EXG   D,X                               EXCHANGE DELTA HORIZONTAL AND DELTA VERTICAL
       1700     E977 34 46           LE977    PSHS U,B,A                              SAVE THE LARGER OF DELTA V, DELTA H AND INCR/DECR ADDRESS
       1701     E979 34 06                    PSHS B,A                                SAVE THE LARGER OF DELTA V, DELTA H
       1702     E97B 44                       LSRA
       1703     E97C 56                       RORB                                    DIVIDE BY 2, SHIFT ACCD RIGHT ONE BIT
       1704     E97D 25 09                    BCS   LE988                             BRANCH IF ODD NUMBER
       1705     E97F 11 83 E9 B9              CMPU #LE9B9                             SEE IF INCR OR DECR
       1706     E983 25 03                    BCS   LE988                             BRANCH IF INCR
       1707     E985 83 00 01                 SUBD #1                                 SUBTRACT ONE IF DECR
       1708     E988 34 16           LE988    PSHS X,B,A                              SAVE SMALLEST DELTA (X) AND INITIAL MINOR COORDINATE
       1709                          * INCREMENT COUNTER WHICH IS 1/2 OF LARGEST DELTA
       1710     E98A BD E7 E6                 JSR   LE7E6                             POINT U TO PROPER COORDINATE TO SCREEN CONVERSION ROUTINE
       1711
       1712                          ** DRAW THE LINE HERE - AT THIS POINT THE STACK HAS THE DRAW DATA ON IT
       1713                          * 0 1,S=MINOR COORDINATE INCREMENT COUNTER
       1714                          * 2 3,S=ABSOLUTE VALUE OF THE SMALLEST DELTA COORDINATE
       1715                          * 4 5,S=ABSOLUTE VALUE OF THE LARGEST DELTA COORDINATE
       1716                          * 6 7,S=LARGEST COORDINATE COUNTER (HOW MANY TIMES THROUGH THE DRAW LOOP)
       1717                                  INITIALLY SET TO ABSOLUTE VALUE OF LARGEST DELTA
       1718                          * 8 9,S=ADDRESS OF THE ROUTINE WHICH WILL INCREMENT OR DECREMENT THE LARGEST DELTA COORDINATE
       1719
       1720     E98D AD C4           LE98D   JSR    ,U                                    CONVERT (X,Y) COORDINATES TO ABSOLUTE SCREEN ADDRESS
       1721     E98F BD E7 88                JSR    LE788                                 TURN ON A PIXEL
       1722     E992 AE 66                   LDX    $06,S                                 GET DISTANCE COUNTER
       1723     E994 27 17                   BEQ    LE9AD                                 BRANCH IF LINE COMPLETELY DRAWN
       1724     E996 30 1F                   LEAX   $-01,X                                DECR ONE
       1725     E998 AF 66                   STX    $06,S                                 SAVE IT
       1726     E99A AD F8 08                JSR    [$08,S]                               INCR/DECR COORDINATE WHICH HAS THE SMALLEST DELTA
       1727     E99D EC E4                   LDD    ,S                                    GET THE MINOR COORDINATE INCREMENT COUNTER
       1728     E99F E3 62                   ADDD   $02,S                                 ADD THE SMALLEST DIFFERENCE




                                                                                   B18
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                                               APPENDIX B                                                                 ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                   DISASSEMBLY OF SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 1.1                                     REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




       1729     E9A1 ED E4                   STD    ,S                                     SAVE NEW MINOR COORDINATE INCREMENT COUNTER
       1730     E9A3 A3 64                   SUBD   $04,S                                  SUBTACT OUT THE LARGEST DIFFERENCE
       1731     E9A5 25 E6                   BCS    LE98D                                  BRANCH IF RESULT NOT > LARGEST DIFFERENCE
       1732     E9A7 ED E4                   STD    ,S                                     IF >=, THEN STORE NEW MINOR COORDINATE INCREMENT
       1733     E9A9 AD A4                   JSR    ,Y                                     INCR/DECR COORDINATE WHICH HAS THE SMALLEST DELTA
       1734     E9AB 20 E0                   BRA    LE98D                                  KEEP GOING
       1735     E9AD 35 10           LE9AD   PULS   X                                      CLEAN UP STACK
       1736     E9AF 35 F6                   PULS   A,B,X,Y,U,PC                           CLEAN UP STACK AND RETURN
       1737
       1738                          * THESE ROUTINES ARE USED TO INCREMENT OR DECREMENT THE HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL
       1739                          * COORDINATES. THEY NEED TO BE KEPT IN THIS ORDER (INCR, INCR, DECR, DECR)
       1740     E9B1 9E BD           LE9B1    LDX   HORBEG                            GET HORIZONTAL COORD
       1741     E9B3 30 01                    LEAX $01,X                              ADD ONE
       1742     E9B5 9F BD                    STX   HORBEG                            SAVE NEW HORIZONTAL COORD
       1743     E9B7 39                       RTS
       1744     E9B8 9E BF                    LDX   VERBEG                            GET VERTICAL COORD
       1745     E9BA 30 01                    LEAX $01,X                              ADD ONE
       1746     E9BC 9F BF                    STX   VERBEG                            SAVE NEW VERTICAL COORD
       1747     E9BE 39                       RTS
       1748     E9BF 9E BD           LE9BF    LDX   HORBEG                            GET HORIZONTAL COORD
       1749     E9C1 30 1F                    LEAX $-01,X                             SUBTRACT ONE
       1750     E9C3 9F BD                    STX   HORBEG                            SAVE NEW HORIZONTAL COORD
       1751     E9C5 39                       RTS
       1752     E9C6 9E BF                    LDX   VERBEG                            GET VERTICAL COORD
       1753     E9C8 30 1F                    LEAX $-01,X                             SUBTRACT ONE
       1754     E9CA 9F BF                    STX   VERBEG                            SAVE NEW VERTICAL COORD
       1755     E9CC 39              LE9CC    RTS
       1756
       1757     E9CD DC C5           LE9CD   LDD    VEREND                                 GET VERTICAL ENDING ADDRESS
       1758     E9CF 93 BF                   SUBD   VERBEG                                 SUBTRACT OUT VERTICAL BEGINNING ADDRESS
       1759     E9D1 24 F9           LE9D1   BCC    LE9CC                                  RETURN IF END >= START
       1760     E9D3 34 01                   PSHS   CC                                     SAVE STATUS (WHICH COORDINATE IS GREATER)
       1761
       1762                          * THE NEXT THREE INSTRUCTIONS WILL NEGATE ACCD
       1763     E9D5 40                       NEGA
       1764     E9D6 50                       NEGB
       1765     E9D7 82 00                    SBCA #$00                                    NEGATE ACCB
       1766     E9D9 35 81                    PULS CC,PC                                   RESTORE STATUS AND RETURN
       1767
       1768     E9DB DC C3           LE9DB   LDD    HOREND                                 GET HORIZONTAL END COORD
       1769     E9DD 93 BD                   SUBD   HORBEG                                 SUBTRACT OUT HORIZONTAL START COORD
       1770     E9DF 20 F0                   BRA    LE9D1                                  GET ABSOLUTE VALUE
       1771
       1772                          * EVALUATE TWO SETS OF COORDINATES SEPERATED BY A MINUS
       1773                          * SIGN. PUT 1ST SET OF COORDINATES AT (HORBEG,VERBEG), SECOND
       1774                          * SET AT (HOREND,VEREND). IF NOTHING BEFORE MINUS SIGN, PUT
       1775                          * (HORDEF,VERDEF) DEFAULTS AT (HORBEG,VERBEG).
       1776
       1777     E9E1 9E C7           LE9E1   LDX    HORDEF                                 GET THE LAST HORIZONTAL END POINT
       1778     E9E3 9F BD                   STX    HORBEG                                 PUT AS START POINT
       1779     E9E5 9E C9                   LDX    VERDEF                                 GET THE LAST VERTICAL END POINT
       1780     E9E7 9F BF                   STX    VERBEG                                 PUT AS VERTICAL START POINT
       1781     E9E9 81 AC                   CMPA   #$AC                                   CHECK FOR MINUS SIGN (-) TOKEN
       1782     E9EB 27 03                   BEQ    LE9F0                                  BRANCH IF NO STARTING COORDINATES GIVEN
       1783     E9ED BD EA 04                JSR    LEA04                                  GO GET THE STARTING COORDINATES
       1784     E9F0 C6 AC           LE9F0   LDB    #$AC                                   TOKEN FOR THE MINUS SIGN (-)
       1785     E9F2 BD B2 6F                JSR    LB26F                                  DO A SYNTAX CHECK FOR A MINUS SIGN
       1786     E9F5 BD B2 6A                JSR    LB26A                                  SYNTAX CHECK FOR A '('
       1787     E9F8 BD B7 34                JSR    LB734                                  EVALUATE 2 EXPRESSIONS
       1788     E9FB 10 8E 00 C3             LDY    #HOREND                                TEMP STORAGE LOCS FOR END COORDS OF LINE COMMAND
       1789     E9FF BD E7 B9                JSR    LE7B9                                  GET END POINT COORDINATES
       1790     EA02 20 06                   BRA    LEA0A                                  SYNTAX CHECK FOR A ')'
       1791     EA04 BD B2 6A        LEA04   JSR    LB26A                                  SYNTAX CHECK FOR A '('
       1792     EA07 BD E7 B2                JSR    LE7B2                                  EVALUATE HORIZONTAL & VERTICAL COORDINATES WITH RANGE CHECK
       1793     EA0A 7E B2 67        LEA0A   JMP    LB267                                  SYNTAX CHECK FOR ')' AND RETURN
       1794     EA0D BD E7 AD        LEA0D   JSR    LE7AD                                  POINT U TO HORBEG; USELESS GIVEN THE FOLLOWINF INSTRUCTION
       1795     EA10 CE 00 C3                LDU    #HOREND                                POINT U TO HOREND
       1796     EA13 7E E7 B0                JMP    LE7B0                                  JUMP TO AN RTS; ONCE WAS A JUMP TO NORMALIZATION ROUTINE
       1797
       1798                          * POINT U TO ROUTINE WHICH WILL MOVE PIXEL ONE TO RIGHT
       1799     EA16 CE EA 25        LEA16    LDU   #LEA25                            POINT TO JUMP TABLE
       1800     EA19 D6 E6                    LDB   HRMODE                            GET HI-RES GRAPHICS MODE VALUE
       1801     EA1B C0 01                    SUBB #$01                               ADJUST OUT MODE 0 (WHY NOT DECB)
       1802     EA1D 58                       ALSB                                    TWO BYTES PER ENTRY
       1803     EA1E EE C5                    LDU   B,U                               GET JUMP ADDRESS
       1804     EA20 39                       RTS
       1805
       1806     EA21 CE EA 45        LEA21   LDU    #LEA45                                 POINT U TO ROUTINE TO MOVE ABSOLUTE POS DOWN ONE ROW
       1807     EA24 39                      RTS
       1808
       1809                          * JUMP TABLE OF ADDRESSES OF ROUTINES WHICH WILL MOVE THE
       1810                          * ABSOLUTE SCREEN ADDRESS POINTER ONE PIXEL TO THE RIGHT
       1811     EA25 EA 34           LEA25    FDB   LEA34                             HSCREEN 1
       1812     EA27 EA 3D           LEA27    FDB   LEA3D                             HSCREEN 2
       1813     EA29 EA 2D           LEA29    FDB   LEA2D                             HSCREEN 3
       1814     EA2B EA 34           LEA2B    FDB   LEA34                             HSCREEN 4
       1815
       1816                          * ENTER WITH ABSOLUTE SCREEN POSITION IN X, PIXEL MASK
       1817                          * IN ACCA - ADJUST X AND ACCA TO THE NEXT PIXEL TO THE RIGHT FOR HSCREEN 3
       1818     EA2D 44              LEA2D    LSRA                                    SHIFT ONE BIT TO THE RIGHT
       1819     EA2E 24 03                    BCC   LEA33                             BRANCH IF SAME BYTE
       1820     EA30 46                       RORA                                    SET BIT 7 OF ACCA IF JUST MOVED TO NEXT BYTE
       1821     EA31 30 01                    LEAX $01,X                              ADD ONE TO SCREEN POSITION
       1822     EA33 39              LEA33    RTS
       1823
       1824                          * ENTER WITH ABSOLUTE SCREEN POSITION IN X, PIXEL MASK IN ACCA -




                                                                                    B19
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                                              APPENDIX B                                                                ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                  DISASSEMBLY OF SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 1.1                                    REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




       1825                          * ADJUST X AND ACCA TO THE NEXT PIXEL TO THE RIGHT FOR HSCREEN 1 & 4
       1826     EA34 44              LEA34    LSRA                                    SHIFT MASK ONE BIT TO THE RIGHT
       1827     EA35 44                       LSRA                                    DO IT AGAIN
       1828     EA36 24 FB                    BCC   LEA33                             BRANCH IF SAME BYTE
       1829     EA38 86 C0                    LDA   #$C0                              SET PIXEL #3 IF NEW BYTE
       1830     EA3A 30 01                    LEAX $01,X                              ADD ONE TO SCREEN ADDRESS
       1831     EA3C 39                       RTS
       1832
       1833                          * ENTER WITH ABSOLUTE SCREEN POSITION IN X, PIXEL MASK IN ACCA -
       1834                          * ADJUST X AND ACCA TO THE NEXT PIXEL TO THE RIGHT FOR HSREEN 2
       1835     EA3D 43              LEA3D    COMA                                    SET TO ALTERNATE PIXEL
       1836     EA3E 81 F0                    CMPA #$F0                               SEE IF TOP HALF OF BYTE
       1837     EA40 26 02                    BNE   LEA44                             BRANCH IF SAME BYTE
       1838     EA42 30 01                    LEAX $01,X                              MOVE POINTER TO NEXT SCREEN ADDRESS
       1839     EA44 39              LEA44    RTS
       1840
       1841                          * ROUTINE TO MOVE DOWN ONE ROW
       1842                          * ENTER WITH ABSOLUTE SCREEN ADDRESS IN X
       1843     EA45 D6 B9           LEA45    LDB   HORBYT                                GET NUMBER OF BYTES PER HORIZONTAL GRAPHICS ROW
       1844     EA47 3A                       ABX                                         ADD A ROW TO CURRENT ADDRESS (MOVE DOWN ONE ROW)
       1845     EA48 39                       RTS
       1846
       1847                          * HCIRCLE
       1848     EA49 0D E6           HCIRCLE TST    HRMODE                                CHECK HI-RES GRAPHICS MODE
       1849     EA4B 10 27 FC A0              LBEQ LE6EF                                  BRANCH IF NOT HI-RES GRAPHICS
       1850     EA4F 10 21 15 AD              LBRN RAMLINK                                RAM HOOK
       1851     EA53 81 40                    CMPA #'@'                                   CHECK FOR @ SIGN (HCIRCLE@ IS LEGAL SYNTAX)
       1852     EA55 26 02                    BNE   LEA59                                 BRANCH IF NOT
       1853     EA57 9D 9F                    JSR   GETNCH                                GET THE NEXT CHARACTER FROM BASIC'S INPUT LINE
       1854     EA59 BD EB 60        LEA59    JSR   LEB60                                 GET MAX HORIZONTAL & VERTICAL COORD VALUES AND PUT THEM IN VD3 & VD5
       1855     EA5C BD EA 04                 JSR   LEA04                                 GET HORIZONTAL & VERTICAL CENTER COORDS AND PUT THEM IN VBD AND VBF
       1856     EA5F BD E7 AD                 JSR   LE7AD                                 NORMALIZE START COORDS FOR PROPER HI-RES GRAPHICS MODE
       1857     EA62 AE C4                    LDX   ,U                                    GET HORIZONTAL COORD
       1858     EA64 9F CB                    STX   VCB                                   SAVE IT
       1859     EA66 AE 42                    LDX   $02,U                                 GET VERTICAL COORD
       1860     EA68 9F CD                    STX   VCD                                   SAVE IT
       1861     EA6A BD B2 6D                 JSR   SYNCOMMA                              DO A SYNTAX CHECK FOR A COMMA
       1862     EA6D BD B7 3D                 JSR   LB73D                                 EVALUATE EXPRESSION, RETURN VALUE IN X
       1863     EA70 CE 00 CF                 LDU   #VCF                                  POINT U TO TEMP DATA STORAGE
       1864     EA73 AF C4                    STX   ,U                                    SAVE RADIUS
       1865     EA75 BD E7 B0                 JSR   LE7B0                                 NOW A JSR TO AN RTS; WAS A CALL TO A NORMALIZATION ROUTINE
       1866     EA78 86 01                    LDA   #$01                                  PSET FLAG
       1867     EA7A 97 C2                    STA   SETFLG                                SAVE PSET/PRESET FLAG
       1868     EA7C BD E7 18                 JSR   LE718                                 GO EVALUATE COLOR EXPRESSION AND SAVE VALUE
       1869     EA7F 8E 01 00                 LDX   #$100                                 DEFAULT HEIGHT/WIDTH RATIO
       1870     EA82 9D A5                    JSR   GETCCH                                GET BASIC'S CURRENT INPUT CHARACTER
       1871     EA84 27 0F                    BEQ   LEA95                                 BRANCH IF NONE
       1872     EA86 BD B2 6D                 JSR   SYNCOMMA                              DO A SYNTAX CHECK FOR A COMMA
       1873     EA89 BD B1 41                 JSR   LB141                                 EVALUATE A NUMERIC EXPRESSION
       1874     EA8C 96 4F                    LDA   FP0EXP                                GET FPA0 EXPONENT
       1875     EA8E 8B 08                    ADDA #$08                                   ADD 8 TO IT (EFFECTIVELY MULTIPLIES BY 256)
       1876     EA90 97 4F                    STA   FP0EXP                                SAVE NEW VALUE
       1877     EA92 BD B7 40                 JSR   LB740                                 EVALUATE EXPRESSION, RETURN VALUE IN X
       1878     EA95 96 E6           LEA95    LDA   HRMODE                                GET CURRENT HI-RES GRAPHICS MODE
       1879     EA97 81 02                    CMPA #$02                                   SEE WHICH MODE IT IS
       1880     EA99 22 04                    BHI   LEA9F                                 BRANCH IF HSCREEN 4
       1881     EA9B 1F 10                    TFR   X,D                                   PREPARE TO DOUBLE THE HEIGHT/WIDTH RATIO FOR MODES 0-2
       1882     EA9D 30 8B                    LEAX D,X                                    DOUBLE H/W RATIO TO COMPENSATE FOR HORIZONTAL PIXEL SIZE
       1883     EA9F 9F D1           LEA9F    STX   VD1                                   SAVE H/W RATIO
       1884     EAA1 C6 01                    LDB   #$01                                  CODE FOR PSET
       1885     EAA3 D7 C2                    STB   SETFLG                                SET PSET/PRESET FLAG TO PSET
       1886     EAA5 D7 D8                    STB   VD8                                   FIRST TIME FLAG - SET TO 0 AFTER ARC DRAWN
       1887     EAA7 BD EB 7B                 JSR   LEB7B                                 EVALUATE CIRCLE START POINT (OCTANT, SUBARC)
       1888     EAAA 34 06                    PSHS B,A                                    SAVE START POINT
       1889     EAAC BD EB 7B                 JSR   LEB7B                                 EVALUATE CIRCLE END POINT (OCTANT, SUBARC)
       1890     EAAF DD D9                    STD   VD9                                   SAVE END POINT
       1891     EAB1 35 06                    PULS A,B                                    GET BACK START POINT
       1892     EAB3 34 06           LEAB3    PSHS B,A                                    STORE CURRENT CIRCLE POSITION
       1893     EAB5 9E C3                    LDX   HOREND                                GET END HORIZONTAL COORD
       1894     EAB7 9F BD                    STX   HORBEG                                MAKE IT THE NEW START
       1895     EAB9 9E C5                    LDX   VEREND                                GET END VERTICAL COORD
       1896     EABB 9F BF                    STX   VERBEG                                MAKE IT THE NEW START
       1897     EABD CE EB 9B                 LDU   #LEB9B                                POINT TO TABLE OF SINES AND COSINES
       1898     EAC0 84 01                    ANDA #$01                                   TEST OCTANT NUMBER
       1899     EAC2 27 03                    BEQ   LEAC7                                 BRANCH IF EVEN
       1900     EAC4 50                       NEGB
       1901     EAC5 CB 08                    ADDB #$08                                   CONVERT 0-7 TO 8-1 FOR ODD OCTANT NUMBERS
       1902     EAC7 58              LEAC7    ALSB                                        MUL BY 2
       1903     EAC8 58                       ALSB                                        DO IT AGAIN (FOUR BYTES PER TABLE ENTRY)
       1904     EAC9 33 C5                    LEAU B,U                                    POINT TO CORRECT TABLE ENTRY
       1905     EACB 34 40                    PSHS U                                      SAVE SIN/COS TABLE ENTRY
       1906     EACD BD EB BD                 JSR   LEBBD                                 CALCULATE HORIZONTAL OFFSET
       1907     EAD0 35 40                    PULS U                                      GET BACK SIN/COS TABLE POINTER
       1908     EAD2 33 5E                    LEAU $-02,U                                 MOVE TO COSINE (VERTICAL)
       1909     EAD4 34 10                    PSHS X                                      SAVE HORIZONTAL OFFSET
       1910     EAD6 BD EB BD                 JSR   LEBBD                                 CALCULATE VERTICAL OFFSET
       1911     EAD9 35 20                    PULS Y                                      PUT HORIZONTAL OFFSET IN Y
       1912     EADB A6 E4                    LDA   ,S                                    GET OCTANT NUMBER
       1913     EADD 84 03                    ANDA #$03                                   MASK OFF BOTTOM TWO BITS
       1914     EADF 27 06                    BEQ   LEAE7                                 BRANCH IF OCTANT 0 OR 4
       1915     EAE1 81 03                    CMPA #$03                                   NOW SEE IF BOTH BITS WERE SET
       1916     EAE3 27 02                    BEQ   LEAE7                                 BRANCH IF OCTANT 3 OR 7
       1917     EAE5 1E 12                    EXG   X,Y                                   SWAP HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL OFFSETS
       1918     EAE7 9F C3           LEAE7    STX   HOREND                                SAVE HORIZONTAL OFFSET
       1919                          * H/W RATIO WILL ONLY MODIFY THE VERTICAL COORD
       1920     EAE9 1F 20                    TFR   Y,D                                   PUT CALCULATED VERTICAL OFFSET INTO ACCD




                                                                                   B20
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                                              APPENDIX B                                                               ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                  DISASSEMBLY OF SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 1.1                                   REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




       1921     EAEB 44                      LSRA
       1922     EAEC 56                      RORB                                         DIVIDE OFFSET BY 2
       1923     EAED 9E D1                   LDX    VD1                                   GET H/W RATIO
       1924     EAEF BD EB CB                JSR    LEBCB                                 MULT VERTICAL OFFSET BY H/W RATIO
       1925     EAF2 1F 20                   TFR    Y,D                                   TRANSFER PRODUCT TO ACCD
       1926     EAF4 4D                      TSTA                                         CHECK OVERFLOW AND GET MS BYTE RESULT
       1927     EAF5 10 26 C9 51             LBNE   ILLFUNC                               ILLEGAL FUNCTION CALL ERROR (RESULT > 255)
       1928     EAF9 D7 C5                   STB    VEREND                                SAVE DELTA VERTICAL MS BYTE
       1929     EAFB 1F 30                   TFR    U,D                                   LS BYTE RESULT TO ACCA
       1930     EAFD 97 C6                   STA    VEREND+1                              SAVE DELTA VERTICAL LS BYTE
       1931     EAFF A6 E4                   LDA    ,S                                    GET OCTANT NUMBER
       1932     EB01 81 02                   CMPA   #$02                                  CHECK FOR OCTANT 0,1,6,7
       1933     EB03 25 0E                   BCS    LEB13                                 BRANCH IF SUBARC HORIZONTAL END POINT >= HORIZONTAL CENTER
       1934     EB05 81 06                   CMPA   #$06                                  MORE CHECKS FOR OCTANT 0,1,6,7
       1935     EB07 24 0A                   BCC    LEB13                                 BRANCH IF SUBARC HORIZONTAL END POINT >= HORIZONTAL CENTER
       1936     EB09 DC CB                   LDD    VCB                                   GET HORIZONTAL COORD OF CENTER
       1937     EB0B 93 C3                   SUBD   HOREND                                SUBTRACT HORIZONTAL DIFFERENCE
       1938     EB0D 24 11                   BCC    LEB20                                 BRANCH IF NO UNDERFLOW
       1939     EB0F 4F                      CLRA
       1940     EB10 5F                      CLRB                                         FORCE COORD TO 0 IF RESULT WAS LESS THAN 0
       1941     EB11 20 0D                   BRA    LEB20                                 SAVE NEW COORD
       1942     EB13 DC CB           LEB13   LDD    VCB                                   GET HORIZONTAL COORD OF CENTER
       1943     EB15 D3 C3                   ADDD   HOREND                                ADD HORIZONTAL DIFFERENCE
       1944     EB17 25 05                   BCS    LEB1E                                 BRANCH IF OVERFLOW
       1945     EB19 10 93 D3                CMPD   VD3                                   COMPARE TO MAX HORIZONTAL COORDINATE
       1946     EB1C 25 02                   BCS    LEB20                                 BRANCH IF < MAX HOR
       1947     EB1E DC D3           LEB1E   LDD    VD3                                   GET MAX HORIZONTAL COORD
       1948     EB20 DD C3           LEB20   STD    HOREND                                SAVE NEW HORIZONTAL SUBARC END COORD
       1949     EB22 A6 E4                   LDA    ,S                                    GET OCTANT NUMBER
       1950     EB24 81 04                   CMPA   #$04                                  CHECK FOR OCTANT 0,1,2 OR 3
       1951     EB26 25 0A                   BCS    LEB32                                 BRANCH IF SUBARC VERTICAL END POINT >= VERTICAL CENTER
       1952     EB28 DC CD                   LDD    VCD                                   GET VERTICAL COORD OF CENTER
       1953     EB2A 93 C5                   SUBD   VEREND                                SUBTRACT VERTICAL DIFFERENCE
       1954     EB2C 24 11                   BCC    LEB3F                                 BRANCH IF NO UNDERFLOW
       1955     EB2E 4F                      CLRA
       1956     EB2F 5F                      CLRB                                     FORCE NEW VERTICAL TO 0 IF MINUS
       1957     EB30 20 0D                   BRA    LEB3F                             SAVE NEW COORD
       1958     EB32 DC CD           LEB32   LDD    VCD                               GET VERTICAL COORD OF CENTER
       1959     EB34 D3 C5                   ADDD   VEREND                            ADD VERTICAL DIFFERENCE
       1960     EB36 25 05                   BCS    LEB3D                             BRANCH IF OVERFLOW
       1961     EB38 10 93 D5                CMPD   VD5                               COMPARE TO MAX VERTICAL COORD
       1962     EB3B 25 02                   BCS    LEB3F                             BRANCH IF < MAX VER
       1963     EB3D DC D5           LEB3D   LDD    VD5                               GET MAX VERTICAL COORD
       1964     EB3F DD C5           LEB3F   STD    VEREND                            SAVE NEW VERTICAL SUBARC END COORD
       1965     EB41 0D D8                   TST    VD8                               CHECK FIRST TIME FLAG
       1966     EB43 26 03                   BNE    LEB48                             DO NOT DRAWE A LINE FIRST TIME THROUGH -
       1967                                                                           BECAUSE THE FIRST TIME YOU WOULD DRAW A LINE
       1968                                                                           FROM THE CENTER TO THE FIRST POINT ON THE CIRCLE
       1969     EB45 17 FE 06                 LBSR LE94E                              DRAW A LINE
       1970     EB48 35 06           LEB48    PULS A,B                                GET END COORDS
       1971     EB4A 04 D8                    LSR   VD8                               SHIFT FIRST TIME FLAG
       1972     EB4C 25 05                    BCS   LEB53                             DO NOT CHECK FOR END POINT AFTER DRAWING FIRST ARC
       1973     EB4E 10 93 D9                 CMPD VD9                                COMPARE CURRENT POSITION TO END POINT
       1974     EB51 27 0C                    BEQ   LEB5F                             BRANCH IF CIRCLE DRAWING IS FINISHED
       1975                          * INCREMENT SUBARC CTR, IF . 7 THEN INC OCTANT CTR
       1976     EB53 5C              LEB53    INCB                                    INC SUBARC COUNTER
       1977     EB54 C1 08                    CMPB #$08                               > 7?
       1978     EB56 26 04                    BNE   LEB5C                             BRANCH IF NOT
       1979     EB58 4C                       INCA                                    INCR OCTANT COUNTER
       1980     EB59 5F                       CLRB                                    RESET SUBARC COUNTER
       1981     EB5A 84 07                    ANDA #$07                               KEEP IN RANGE OF 0-7; ONCE ACCA=ACCB, THIS WILL MAKE ACCA=0
       1982                                                                           SO THE END POINT WILL BE (0,0) AND THE CIRCLE ROUTINE WILL END
       1983     EB5C 7E EA B3        LEB5C    JMP   LEAB3                             KEEP DRAWING THE CIRCLE
       1984     EB5F 39              LEB5F    RTS                                     EXIT CIRCLE ROUTINE
       1985
       1986                          * GET MAXIMUM VALUE OF HORIZONTAL & VERTICAL COORDINATES NORMALIZED FOR
       1987                          * PROPER GRAPHICS MODE. RETURN VALUES: HORIZONTAL IN VD3, VERTICAL IN VD5
       1988     EB60 CE 00 D3        LEB60    LDU   #VD3                              POINT U TO STORAGE AREA
       1989     EB63 8E 02 7F                 LDX   #640-1                            GET MAXIMUM HORIZONTAL COORD
       1990     EB66 AF C4                    STX   ,U                                SAVE IT
       1991     EB68 96 E6                    LDA   HRMODE                            GET CURRENT GRAPHICS MODE
       1992     EB6A 81 02                    CMPA #$02                               SEE WHICH MODE
       1993     EB6C 2E 05                    BGT   LEB73                             BRANCH IF MODES 3 OR 4
       1994     EB6E 8E 01 3F                 LDX   #320-1                            MAXIMUM VALUE FOR HORIZONTAL COORD IN MODES 1 AND 2
       1995     EB71 AF C4                    STX   ,U                                SAVE IT
       1996     EB73 8E 00 BF        LEB73    LDX   #192-1                            GET THE MAXIMUM VERTICAL COORD
       1997     EB76 AF 42                    STX   $02,U                             SAVE IT
       1998     EB78 7E E7 B0                 JMP   LE7B0                             JUMP TO AN RTS; ONCE WAS A NORMALIZATION ROUTINE
       1999
       2000                          * EVALUATE CIRCLE START POINT (OCTANT, SUBARC)
       2001                          * CALCULATE START OF END POINT WHICH IS A NUMBER FROM
       2002                          * 0-63 SAVED AS AN OCTANT NUMBER (0-7) AND SUBARC NUMBER (0-7)
       2003     EB7B 5F              LEB7B    CLRB                                    SET DEFAULT VALUE TO 0
       2004     EB7C 9D A5                    JSR   GETCCH                            GET BASIC'S CURRENT INPUT CHARACTER
       2005     EB7E 27 11                    BEQ   LEB91                             BRANCH IF NONE
       2006     EB80 BD B2 6D                 JSR   SYNCOMMA                          DO A SYNTAX CHECK FOR A COMMA
       2007     EB83 BD B1 41                 JSR   LB141                             EVALUATE A NUMERIC EXPRESSION
       2008     EB86 96 4F                    LDA   FP0EXP                            GET EXPONENT OF FPA0
       2009     EB88 8B 06                    ADDA #$06                               ADD 6 TO EXPONENT - MULTIPLY EXPONENT BY 64
       2010     EB8A 97 4F                    STA   FP0EXP                            RESAVE IT
       2011     EB8C BD B7 0E                 JSR   LB70E                             CONVERT FPA0 TO INTEGER IN ACCB
       2012     EB8F C4 3F                    ANDB #$3F                               FORCE MAX VALUE OF 63
       2013     EB91 1F 98           LEB91    TFR   B,A                               SAVE VALUE IN ACCA ALSO
       2014     EB93 C4 07                    ANDB #$07                               NOW ACCB CONTAINS SUBARC NUMBER
       2015     EB95 44                       LSRA
       2016     EB96 44                       LSRA




                                                                                   B21
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                                                APPENDIX B                                                               ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                    DISASSEMBLY OF SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 1.1                                   REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




       2017     EB97 44                      LSRA                                           DIVIDE ACCA BY 8 - OCTANT NUMBER
       2018     EB98 39                      RTS
       2019
       2020     EB99 00 00 00 01     CIRCDATA FDB    $0000,$0001                            SUBARC 0
       2021     EB9D FE C5 19 19     LEB9D    FDB    $FEC5,$1919                            SUBARC 1
       2022     EBA1 FB 16 31 F2     LEBA1    FDB    $FB16,$31F2                            SUBARC 2
       2023     EBA5 F4 FB 4A 51     LEBA5    FDB    $F4FB,$4A51                            SUBARC 3
       2024     EBA9 EC 84 61 F9     LEBA9    FDB    $EC84,$61F9                            SUBARC 4
       2025     EBAD E1 C7 78 AE     LEBAB    FDB    $E1C7,$78AE                            SUBARC 5
       2026     EBB1 D4 DC 8E 3B     LEBAF    FDB    $D4DC,$8E3B                            SUBARC 6
       2027     EBB5 C5 E5 A2 69     LEBB5    FDB    $C5E5,$A269                            SUBARC 7
       2028     EBB9 B5 06 B5 06     LEBB9    FDB    $B506,$B506                            SUBARC 8
       2029
       2030                          * MULTIPLY RADIUS BY SIN/COS VALUE AND RETURN OFFSET IN X
       2031     EBBD 9E CF           LEBBD    LDX   VCF                               GET RADIUS
       2032     EBBF EC C4                    LDD   ,U                                GET SIN/COS TABLE MODIFIER
       2033     EBC1 27 07                    BEQ   LEBCA                             BRANCH IF 0 (OFFSET = RADIUS)
       2034     EBC3 83 00 01                 SUBD #1                                 SUBTRACT ONE
       2035     EBC6 8D 03                    BSR   LEBCB                             MULTIPLY RADIUS BY SIN/COS
       2036     EBC8 1F 21                    TFR   Y,X                               RETURN RESULT IN X
       2037     EBCA 39              LEBCA    RTS
       2038
       2039                          * MULTIPLY (UNSIGNED) TWO 16 BIT NUMBERS TOGETHER -
       2040                          * ENTER WITH ONE NUMBER IN ACCD, THE OTHER IN X REGISTER
       2041                          * THE 4 BYTE PRODUCT WILL BE STORED IN 4,S - 7,S
       2042                          * (Y, U REGISTERS ON THE STACK). I.E. (AA AB) x (XH,XL)=
       2043                          * 256 * AA * XH + 16 * (AA * XL + AB * HX) + AB * XL. THE TWO BYTE
       2044                          * MULTIPLIER AND THE MULTIPLICAND ARE TREATED AS A 1
       2045                          * BYTE INTEGER PART (MSB) WITH A 1 BYTE FRACTIONAL PART (LSB)
       2046
       2047     EBCB 34 76           LEBCB   PSHS    U,Y,X,B,A                              SAVE REGISTERS AND RESERVE STORAGE SPACE ON THE STACK
       2048     EBCD 6F 64                   CLR     $04,S                                  RESET OVERFLOW FLAG
       2049     EBCF A6 63                   LDA     $03,S                                  =
       2050     EBD1 3D                      MUL                                            =
       2051     EBD2 ED 66                   STD     $06,S                                  = CALCULATE ACCB*XL, STORE RESULT IN 6,S
       2052     EBD4 EC 61                   LDD     $01,S                                  *
       2053     EBD6 3D                      MUL                                            * CALCULATE ACCB*XH
       2054     EBD7 EB 66                   ADDB    $06,S                                  *
       2055     EBD9 89 00                   ADCA    #$00                                   =
       2056     EBDB ED 65                   STD     $05,S                                  = ADD THE CARRY FROM THE 1ST MUL TO THE RESULT OF THE 2ND MUL
       2057     EBDD E6 E4                   LDB     ,S                                     *
       2058     EBDF A6 63                   LDA     $03,S                                  *
       2059     EBE1 3D                      MUL                                            * CALCULATE ACCA*XL
       2060     EBE2 E3 65                   ADDD    $05,S                                  =
       2061     EBE4 ED 65                   STD     $05,S                                  = ADD RESULT TO TOTAL OF 2 PREVIOUS MULTS
       2062     EBE6 24 02                   BCC     LEBEA                                  BRANCH IF NO OVERFLOW
       2063     EBE8 6C 64                   INC     $04,S                                  SET OVERFLOW FLAG (ACCD > $FFFF)
       2064     EBEA A6 E4           LEBEA   LDA     ,S                                     *
       2065     EBEC E6 62                   LDB     $02,S                                  *
       2066     EBEE 3D                      MUL                                            * CALCULATE ACCA*XH
       2067     EBEF E3 64                   ADDD    $04,S                                  =
       2068     EBF1 ED 64                   STD     $04,S                                  = ADD TO PREVIOUS RESULT
       2069     EBF3 35 F6                   PULS    A,B,X,Y,U,PC                           RETURN WITH RESULT IN U AND Y
       2070
       2071                          * HPAINT
       2072     EBF5 0D E6           HPAINT   TST    HRMODE                                 CHECK HI-RES GRAPHICS MODE
       2073     EBF7 10 27 FA F4              LBEQ   LE6EF                                  'HR' ERROR IF HI-RES GRAPHICS MODE NOT SET UP
       2074     EBFB 10 21 14 01              LBRN   RAMLINK                                RAM HOOK
       2075     EBFF 81 40                    CMPA   #'@'                                   CHECK FOR @ SIGN
       2076     EC01 26 02                    BNE    LEC05                                  BRANCH IF NOT
       2077     EC03 9D 9F                    JSR    GETNCH                                 GET THE NEXT CHARACTER FROM BASIC'S INPUT LINE
       2078     EC05 BD EA 04        LEC05    JSR    LEA04                                  SYNTAX CHECK FOR '(', TWO EXPRESSIONS, AND ')'
       2079     EC08 BD E7 AD                 JSR    LE7AD                                  NORMALIZE THE HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL COORDS
       2080     EC0B 86 01                    LDA    #$01                                   CODE FOR PSET
       2081     EC0D 97 C2                    STA    SETFLG                                 SET PSET/PRESET FLAG TO PSET
       2082     EC0F BD E7 18                 JSR    LE718                                  GET PAINT COLOR CODE & SET ACTIVE COLOR AND ALL PIXEL BYTES
       2083     EC12 DC B4                    LDD    WCOLOR                                 GET THEM
       2084     EC14 34 06                    PSHS   B,A                                    SAVE THEM ON THE STACK
       2085     EC16 9D A5                    JSR    GETCCH                                 GET BASIC'S CURRENT INPUT CHARACTER
       2086     EC18 27 03                    BEQ    LEC1D                                  BRANCH IF NONE LEFT - DEFAULT BORDER COLOR TO FOREGROUND,
       2087                                                                                 PAINT COLOR TO BACKGROUND
       2088     EC1A BD E7 18                 JSR   LE718                                   EVALUATE THE BORDER COLOR
       2089     EC1D 96 B5           LEC1D    LDA   ALLCOL                                  GET BORDER COLOR ALL PIXEL BYTE
       2090     EC1F 97 D8                    STA   VD8                                     TEMP SAVE IT
       2091     EC21 35 06                    PULS A,B                                      GET PAINT ACTIVE COLORS BACK
       2092     EC23 DD B4                    STD   WCOLOR                                  RESAVE THEM
       2093     EC25 BD E1 19                 JSR   SELTASK1
       2094     EC28 4F                       CLRA                                    * STORE A BLOCK OF 'PAINT' DATA ON THE STACK WHICH
       2095     EC29 34 56                    PSHS U,X,B,A                            * WILL ACT AS AN END OF 'PAINT' DATA FLAG.
       2096                          * THE CLRA WILL CAUSE THE UP/DN FLAG TO BE ZERO WHICH IS USED TO EXIT THE HPAINT ROUTINE
       2097     EC2B BD EB 60                 JSR   LEB60                             GET NORMALIZED MAX HOR/VERTICAL VALUES - RETURN RESULT IN VD3,VD5
       2098     EC2E BD E7 E6                 JSR   LE7E6                             POINT U TO THE ROUTINE WHICH WILL SELECT A PIXEL
       2099                          *
       2100                          * 'PAINT' THE FIRST HORIZONTAL LINE FROM THE START COORDINATES
       2101     EC31 DF D9                    STU   VD9                               SAVE ADDRESS
       2102     EC33 BD EC BE                 JSR   LECBE                             'PAINT' FROM THE CURRENT HORIZONTAL COORD TO ZERO
       2103     EC36 27 0F                    BEQ   LEC47                             BRANCH IF NO PAINTING DONE - HIT BORDER INSTANTLY
       2104     EC38 BD ED 01                 JSR   LED01                             PAINT TOWARD MAX HORIZONTAL COORD
       2105     EC3B 86 01                    LDA   #$01                              SET UP/DN FLAG TO UP (1=UP, $FF=DOWN)
       2106     EC3D 97 D7                    STA   VD7                               SAVE IT
       2107     EC3F BD ED 2E                 JSR   LED2E                             SAVE POSITIVE GOING LINE INFO ON STACK
       2108     EC42 00 D7                    NEG   VD7                               SET UP/DN FLAG TO $FF (DOWN)
       2109     EC44 BD ED 2E                 JSR   LED2E                             SAVE NEGATIVE GOING LINE INFO ON STACK
       2110     EC47 10 DF DC        LEC47    STS   TMPSTK                            TEMP STORE STACK POINTER
       2111     EC4A 0D DB           LEC4A    TST   CHGFLG                            SEE IF PAINTED COLOR IS DIFFERENT THAN THE ORIGINAL COLOR
       2112     EC4C 26 03                    BNE   LEC51                             BRANCH IF DATA HAS BEEN MODIFIED




                                                                                     B22
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                                              APPENDIX B                                                               ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                  DISASSEMBLY OF SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 1.1                                   REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




       2113     EC4E 10 DE DC                 LDS   TMPSTK                                GET STACK POINTER BACK
       2114     EC51 35 56           LEC51    PULS A,B,X,U                                GET DATA FOR NEXT LINE SEGMENT TO CHECK FROM THE STACK
       2115     EC53 0F DB                    CLR   CHGFLG                                CLEAR THE CHANGE FLAG
       2116     EC55 10 DF DC                 STS   TMPSTK                                TEMP SAVE THE STACK ADDRESS
       2117     EC58 30 01                    LEAX $01,X                                  ADD ONE TO 'START HORIZONTAL COORD -1'
       2118     EC5A 9F BD                    STX   HORBEG                                PIT IT AT 'CURRENT HORIZONTAL COORD ADDRESS'
       2119     EC5C DF D1                    STU   VD1                                   SAVE LENGTH OF PARENT LINE
       2120     EC5E 97 D7                    STA   VD7                                   SAVE UP/DN FLAG
       2121     EC60 27 58                    BEQ   LECBA                                 EXIT ROUTINE IF UP/DN FLAG = 0
       2122     EC62 2B 06                    BMI   LEC6A                                 BRANCH IF UP/DN FLAG = DOWN
       2123                          * CHECK ONE LINE BELOW CURRENT DATA
       2124     EC64 5C                       INCB                                    INCREMENT VERTICAL COORD
       2125     EC65 D1 D6                    CMPB VD6                                COMPARE TO MAXIMUM VERTICAL COORD
       2126     EC67 23 05                    BLS   LEC6E                             BRANCH IF NOT GREATER - PROCESS LINE
       2127     EC69 5F                       CLRB                                    SET VERTICAL COORD TO ZERO TO FORCE WRAP AROUND
       2128     EC6A 5D              LEC6A    TSTB                                    CHECK VERTICAL COORD
       2129     EC6B 27 DD                    BEQ   LEC4A                             PROCESS ANOTHER BLOCK OF PAINT DATA IF WRAP AROUND -
       2130                                                                           DISCARD ANY LINE BELOW VERTICAL COORD = 0 OR ABOVE MAX VER COORD
       2131     EC6D 5A                       DECB                                    DEC VERTICAL COORD
       2132                          * PROCESS A HORIZONTAL LINE THAT WAS STORED ON STACK - LIMIT CHECK HAVE BEEN DONE
       2133     EC6E D7 C0           LEC6E    STB   VERBEG+1                          SAVE CURRENT VERTICAL COORD
       2134     EC70 BD EC BE                 JSR   LECBE                             PAINT FROM HORIZONTAL COORD TO ZERO OR BORDER
       2135     EC73 27 11                    BEQ   LEC86                             BRANCH IF NO PIXELS WERE PAINTED
       2136     EC75 10 83 00 03              CMPD #3                                 SEE IF FEWER THAN 3 PIXELS WERE PAINTED
       2137     EC79 25 05                    BCS   LEC80                             BRANCH IF NO NEED TO CHECK FOR PAINTABLE DATA
       2138     EC7B 30 1E                    LEAX $-02,X                             MOVE HORIZONTAL COORD TWO PIXELS TO THE LEFT
       2139     EC7D BD ED 15                 JSR   LED15                             SAVE A BLOCK OF PAINT DATA IN THE DIRECTION OPPOSITE TO UP/DN FLAG
       2140     EC80 BD ED 01        LEC80    JSR   LED01                             CONTINUE PAINTING LINE TO THE RIGHT
       2141     EC83 BD ED 2E        LEC83    JSR   LED2E                             SAVE A BLOCK OF PAINT DATA IN THE SAME DIRECTION AS UP/DN FLAG
       2142                          * THIS CODE WILL INSURE THAT THE CURRENT LINE IS
       2143                          * EXAMINED TO THE RIGHT FOR PAINTABLE PIXELS FOR A
       2144                          * LINE EQUAL TO THE LENGTH OF THE PARENT LINE
       2145     EC86 43              LEC86    COMA                                    *
       2146     EC87 53                       COMB                                    * COMPLEMENT LENGTH OF LINE JUST PAINTED
       2147     EC88 D3 D1           LEC88    ADDD VD1                                ADD TO LENGTH OF PARENT LINE
       2148     EC8A DD D1                    STD   VD1                               SAVE DIFFERENCE OF LINE JUST PAINTED AND PARENT LINE
       2149     EC8C 2F 17                    BLE   LECA5                             BRANCH IF PARENT LINE IS SHORTER
       2150     EC8E BD E9 B1                 JSR   LE9B1                             GO INCR HORIZONTAL COORD
       2151     EC91 BD EC F1                 JSR   LECF1                             CHECK FOR BORDER COLOR
       2152     EC94 26 05                    BNE   LEC9B                             BRANCH IF NOT BORDER COLOR
       2153     EC96 CC FF FF                 LDD   #-1                               * GO DECREMENT ONE FROM LENGTH OF DIFFERENCE
       2154     EC99 20 ED                    BRA   LEC88                             * LINE AND KEEP LOOKING FOR NON BORDER COLOR
       2155     EC9B BD E9 BF        LEC9B    JSR   LE9BF                             GET DECR HORIZONTAL COORD
       2156     EC9E BD ED 3A                 JSR   LED3A                             GET AND SAVE HORIZONTAL COORD
       2157     ECA1 8D 24                    BSR   LECC7                             PAINT FORWARD TO MAX HORIZONTAL COORD OR BORDER
       2158     ECA3 20 DE                    BRA   LEC83                             SAVE BLOCK OF PAINT DATA AND KEEP CHECKING
       2159                          *
       2160                          * CHECK TO SEE IF THE CURRENT LINE EXTENDS FURTHER TO
       2161                          * THE RIGHT THAN THE PARENT LINE AND PUT A BLOCK OF
       2162                          * PAINT DATA ON THE STACK IF IT IS MORE THAN 2 PIXELS
       2163                          * PAST THE END OF THE PARENT LINE
       2164     ECA5 BD E9 B1        LECA5    JSR   LE9B1                             INC CURRENT HORIZONTAL COORD
       2165     ECA8 30 8B                    LEAX D,X                                POINT X TO THE RIGHT END OF THE PARENT LINE
       2166     ECAA 9F BD                    STX   HORBEG                            SAVE AS THE CURRENT HORIZONTAL COORDINATE
       2167     ECAC 43                       COMA                                    = ACCA CONTAINS A NEGATIVE NUMBER CORRESPONDING TO THE NUMBER
       2168     ECAD 53                       COMB                                    = OF PIXELS THE CURRENT LINE EXTENDS PAST THE RIGHT END
       2169     ECAE 83 00 01                 SUBD #1                                 = OF THE PARENT LINE. CONVERT TO POSITIVE NUMBER AND BRANCH
       2170     ECB1 2F 04                    BLE   LECB7                             = IF THE LINE DOESN'T EXTEND PAST THE END OF THE PARENT.
       2171     ECB3 1F 01                    TFR   D,X                               SAVE PORTION OF THE LINE TO THE RIGHT OF THE PARENT LINE
       2172                                                                           AS THE LENGTH
       2173     ECB5 8D 5E                    BSR   LED15                             SAVE BLOCK OF PAINT DATA IN THE DIRECTION OPPOSITE THE
       2174                                                                           CURRENT UP/DN FLAG
       2175     ECB7 7E EC 4A        LECB7    JMP   LEC4A                             PROCESS MORE PAINT DATA BLOCKS
       2176     ECBA BD E0 FF        LECBA    JSR   SELTASK0                          ENABLE TASK REGISTER 0
       2177     ECBD 39                       RTS
       2178
       2179                          * PAINT FROM HORIZONTAL COORD TO ZERO OR HIT BORDER; RETURN WITH Z=1 IF NO PAINTING DONE
       2180     ECBE BD ED 3A        LECBE    JSR   LED3A                             PUT STARTING COORD IN HOREND
       2181     ECC1 10 8E E9 BF              LDY   #LE9BF                            ROUTINE TO DEC HORIZONTAL ADDRESS
       2182     ECC5 20 06                    BRA   LECCD                             GO PAINT THE LINE
       2183                          * PAINT FROM HORIZONTAL COORD TO MAX HORIZONTAL COORD OR HIT BORDER; RETURN Z=1 IF NO PAINTING DONE
       2184     ECC7 10 8E E9 B1     LECC7    LDY   #LE9B1                            ROUTINE TO INCR HORIZONTAL COORD
       2185     ECCB AD A4                    JSR   ,Y                                INCR HORIZONTAL COORD - LEFT PAINT ROUTINE PAINTED FIRST COORD
       2186     ECCD DE 8A           LECCD    LDU   ZERO                              ZERO INITIAL PIXEL PAINT COUNTER
       2187     ECCF 9E BD                    LDX   HORBEG                            GET HORIZONTAL COORD
       2188     ECD1 2B 17           LECD1    BMI   LECEA                             BRANCH IF HORIZONTAL COORD IS > $7F OR < 0
       2189     ECD3 9C D3                    CMPX VD3                                COMPARE CURRENT COORD TO MAX VALUE
       2190     ECD5 22 13                    BHI   LECEA                             BRANCH IF > MAX
       2191     ECD7 34 60                    PSHS U,Y                                SAVE PAINT COUNTER AND INC/DEC POINTER
       2192     ECD9 8D 16                    BSR   LECF1                             CHECK FOR BORDER PIXEL
       2193     ECDB 27 0B                    BEQ   LECE8                             BRANCH IF HIT BORDER
       2194     ECDD BD E7 92                 JSR   LE792                             SET PIXEL TO PAINT COLOR - PAINTING IS DONE HERE
       2195     ECE0 35 60                    PULS Y,U                                RESTORE PAINT COUNTER AND INC/DEC POINTER
       2196     ECE2 33 41                    LEAU $01,U                              ADD ONE TO PAINT COUNTER
       2197     ECE4 AD A4                    JSR   ,Y                                INCR OR DECR HORIZONTAL COORD DEPENDING ON CONTENTS OF Y
       2198     ECE6 20 E9                    BRA   LECD1                             KEEP PAINTING LINE
       2199     ECE8 35 60           LECE8    PULS Y,U                                RESTORE PAINT COUNTER AND INC/DEC POINTER
       2200     ECEA 1F 30           LECEA    TFR   U,D                               SAVE PAINT COUNTER IN ACCD
       2201     ECEC 1F 01                    TFR   D,X                               ALSO SAVE IT IN X
       2202     ECEE 93 8A                    SUBD ZERO                               SET COUNTERS ACCORDING TO CONDITION OF PAINT COUNTER
       2203     ECF0 39                       RTS
       2204                          * CHECK FOR BORDER COLOR - ENTER WITH VD9 CONTAINING
       2205                          * ADDRESS OF ROUTINE TO GET ABSOLUTE SCREEN ADDRESS
       2206                          * AND PIXEL MASK - EXIT WITH Z=1 IF HIT BORDER COLOR PIXEL
       2207     ECF1 AD 9F 00 D9     LECF1    JSR   [VD9]                             GET SCREEN ADDRESS AND PIXEL MASK
       2208     ECF5 1F 89                    TFR   A,B                               COPY PIXEL MASK IN ACCB




                                                                                   B23
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                                              APPENDIX B                                                               ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                  DISASSEMBLY OF SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 1.1                                   REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




       2209     ECF7 D4 D8                    ANDB VD8                                AND PIXEL MASK WITH BORDER COLOR
       2210     ECF9 34 06                    PSHS B,A                                SAVE MASK AND BORDER PIXEL
       2211     ECFB A4 84                    ANDA ,X                                 TEST THE PIXEL ON THE SCREEN
       2212     ECFD A1 61                    CMPA $01,S                              COMPARE WITH ACCB ON THE STACK
       2213     ECFF 35 86                    PULS A,B,PC                             EXIT WITH Z FLAG=1 IF MATCH
       2214                          * GO HERE TO FINISH PAINTING TO RIGHT AFTER YOU HAVE PAINTED LEFT
       2215     ED01 DD CD           LED01    STD   VCD                               SAVE NUMBER OF PIXELS PAINTED
       2216     ED03 10 9E C3                 LDY   HOREND                            GET LAST HORIZONTAL START COORD
       2217     ED06 8D 32                    BSR   LED3A                             SAVE CURRENT HORIZONTAL COORD - HOREND NOW CONTAINS COORDINATE
       2218                                                                           OF THE LEFT BORDER OF THIS HORIZONTAL LINE
       2219     ED08 10 9F BD                 STY   HORBEG                            START PAINTING TO RIGHT FROM THE LEFT PAINT START COORD
       2220     ED0B 8D BA                    BSR   LECC7                             PAINT TOWARDS THE RIGHT
       2221     ED0D 9E CD                    LDX   VCD                               GET THE NUMBER OF PIXELS PAINTED WHEN GOING TOWARDS LEFT PIXELS
       2222     ED0F 30 8B                    LEAX D,X                                ADD NUMBER OF PAINTED GOING TOWARD THE RIGHT
       2223     ED11 C3 00 01                 ADDD #1                                 ADD 1 TO PAINT COUNT TOWARD RIGHT - ACCD=LENGTH OF PAINTED LINE
       2224     ED14 39                       RTS
       2225                          * BLOCKS OF DATA ARE STORED ON THE STACK SO THAT HPAINT
       2226                          * CAN REMEMBER WHERE IT SHOULD GO BACK AND PAINT UP OR DOWN
       2227                          * FROM THE CURRENT LINE IT IS PAINTING. THESE BLOCKS OF DATA
       2228                          * REPRESENT HORIZONTAL LINES ABOVE OR BELOW THE CURRENT LINE
       2229                          * BEING PAINTED AND REQUIRE SIX BYTES OF STORAGE ON THE STACK.
       2230                          * THE DATA ARE AS FOLLOWS: ,S=UP/DN FLAG; 1,S=VERTICAL COORD
       2231                          * OF LINE; 2 3,S=LEFT MOST HORIZONTAL COORD OF LINE; 4 5,S=LENGTH OF LINE
       2232
       2233                          * SAVE A BLOCK OF PAINT DATA FOR A LINE IN THE OPPOSITE DIRECTION OF THE CURREN UP/DN FLAG
       2234     ED15 DD CB           LED15    STD   VCB                               SAVE NUMBER OF PIXELS PAINTED
       2235     ED17 35 20                    PULS Y                                  GET RETURN ADDRESS IN Y
       2236     ED19 DC BD                    LDD   HORBEG                            GET HORIZONTAL START COORD
       2237     ED1B 34 16                    PSHS X,B,A                              PUT ON STACK
       2238     ED1D 96 D7                    LDA   VD7                               GET UP/DN FLAG
       2239     ED1F 40                       NEGA                                    REVERSE IT
       2240     ED20 D6 C0           LED20    LDB   VERBEG+1                          GET VERTICAL START COORDINATE
       2241     ED22 34 06                    PSHS B,A                                SAVE VERTICAL START COORD AND UP/DN FLAG
       2242     ED24 34 20                    PSHS Y                                  PUT BACK RETURN ADDRESS
       2243     ED26 C6 06                    LDB   #$06                              GET NUMBER OF FREE BYTES TO CHECK FOR
       2244     ED28 BD ED 3F                 JSR   LED3F                             GO SEE IF THERE IS ENOUGH RAM
       2245     ED2B DC CB                    LDD   VCB                               GET LENGTH OF RIGHT PAINTED LINE
       2246     ED2D 39                       RTS
       2247
       2248                          * SAVE A BLOCK OF PAINT DATA FOR A LINE IN THE SAME DIRECTION AS THE CURRENT UP/DN FLAG
       2249     ED2E DD CB           LED2E    STD   VCB                               SAVE THE LENGTH OF RIGHT HORIZONTAL PAINTED LINE
       2250     ED30 35 20                    PULS Y                                  SAVE RETURN ADDRESS IN Y
       2251     ED32 DC C3                    LDD   HOREND                            GET HORIZONTAL START COORD
       2252     ED34 34 16                    PSHS X,B,A                              SAVE START COORD AND LENGTH
       2253     ED36 96 D7                    LDA   VD7                               GET UP/DN FLAG (1 OR -1)
       2254     ED38 20 E6                    BRA   LED20                             SAVE THE PAINT DATA ON THE STACK
       2255     ED3A 9E BD           LED3A    LDX   HORBEG                            GET CURRENT HORIZONTAL COORD
       2256     ED3C 9F C3                    STX   HOREND                            SAVE IT
       2257     ED3E 39                       RTS
       2258
       2259                          * CHECK ACCB (ONLY 0-127) BYTES OF FREE RAM ON THE STACK
       2260     ED3F 50              LED3F    NEGB
       2261     ED40 32 E5                    LEAS B,S                                MOVE THE STACK POINTER DOWN ACCB BYTES
       2262     ED42 11 8C BF F1              CMPS #TMPSTACK-($2000+14)               COMPARE TO THE BOTTOM OF THE STACK AREA - THE 14 EXTRA BYTES ARE
       2263                                                                           GENERATED BY THE FACT THAT THE SEVEN INTERRUPT VECTORS ARE GOTTEN FROM
       2264                                                                           THE ROM BY THE GIME CHIP. THE 14 BYTES IN RAM ARE UNUSED BY BASIC.
       2265     ED46 10 25 00 04              LBCS LED4E                              'OM' ERROR IF PAST THE BOTTOM
       2266     ED4A 50                       NEGB                                    MAKE ACCB POSITIVE AGAIN
       2267     ED4B 32 E5                    LEAS B,S                                PUT THE STACK POINTER BACK WHERE IT BELONGS
       2268     ED4D 39                       RTS
       2269     ED4E 10 CE DF FD     LED4E    LDS   #TMPSTACK-2                       PUT THE STACK POINTER AT THE TOP OF THE TEMPORARY STACK BUFFER
       2270     ED52 BD E0 FF                 JSR   SELTASK0                          ENABLE TASK REGISTER 0
       2271     ED55 7E AC 44                 JMP   LAC44                             GO DO AN 'OM' ERROR
       2272
       2273                          * HBUFF
       2274                          * THE HBUFF COMMAND WILL RESERVE SPACE IN THE HPUT/HGET BUFFER. THERE MUST BE ENOUGH FREE RAM
       2275                          * IN THE BUFFER FOR THE REQUESTED BUFFER SIZE AND A FIVE BYTE HEADER. EACH BUFFER HAS A FIVE BYTE
       2276                          * HEADER WHICH IS DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:
       2277                          * BYTES 0,1: ADDRESS OF THE NEXT HPUT/HGET BUFFER IN THE BUFFER SPACE. IF ZERO, THERE ARE
       2278                          * NO MORE BUFFERS IN THE BUFFER SPACE. IF $FFFF, THEN THERE ARE NO
       2279                          * BUFFERS ALLOCATED AND THE ENTIRE BUFFER SPACE IS FREE.
       2280                          * BYTE 2: BUFFER NUMBER; BYTES 3,4: SIZE OF THE BUFFER
       2281
       2282                          * HBUFF
       2283     ED58 BD B7 3D        HBUFF   JSR    LB73D                                 EVALUATE BUFFER NUMBER ARGUMENT; RETURN VALUE IN X
       2284     ED5B 10 21 12 A1             LBRN   RAMLINK                               RAM HOOK
       2285     ED5F 8C 00 FF                CMPX   #255                                  MAXIMUM OF 255 BUFFERS ALLOWED
       2286     ED62 10 22 C6 E4             LBHI   ILLFUNC                               ILLEGAL FUNCTION CALL ERROR IF BUFFER NUMBER > 255
       2287     ED66 9F D1                   STX    VD1                                   SAVE THE BUFFER NUMBER
       2288     ED68 27 08                   BEQ    LED72                                 DON'T GET THE SIZE OF THE BUFFER IF BUFFER 0 SELECTED
       2289     ED6A BD B2 6D                JSR    SYNCOMMA                              DO A SYNTAX CHECK FOR A COMMA
       2290     ED6D BD B7 3D                JSR    LB73D                                 EVALUATE THE BUFFER SIZE ARGUMENT
       2291     ED70 9F D3                   STX    VD3                                   SAVE THE BUFFER SIZE
       2292     ED72 BD E0 CB        LED72   JSR    LE0CB                                 PUT BLOCK 6.4 INTO LOGICAL BLOCK 6 ($C000) OF TASK REGISTER 1
       2293     ED75 BD E1 19                JSR    SELTASK1                              ENABLE TASK REGISTER 1
       2294     ED78 DC D1                   LDD    VD1                                   GET THE NEW BUFFER NUMBER
       2295     ED7A 5D                      TSTB                                         CHECK FOR BUFFER ZERO
       2296     ED7B 26 08                   BNE    LED85                                 BRANCH IF NOT BUFFER ZERO
       2297     ED7D CC FF FF                LDD    #$FFFF                                EMPTY BUFFER FLAG
       2298     ED80 FD C0 00                STD    HRESBUFF                              RESET BUFFER SPACE TO EMPTY
       2299     ED83 20 38                   BRA    LEDBD                                 EXIT COMMAND
       2300     ED85 10 8E C0 00     LED85   LDY    #HRESBUFF                             POINT TO THE START OF THE BUFFER SPACE
       2301     ED89 EC A4                   LDD    ,Y                                    GET THE FIRST TWO BYTES OF THE HEADER BLOCK (HB.ADDR)
       2302     ED8B 10 83 FF FF             CMPD   #$FFFF                                IS THE BUFFER EMPTY?
       2303     ED8F 26 04                   BNE    LED95                                 NO; CHECK FOR FIRST EMPTY HEADER SPOT
       2304     ED91 8D 31                   BSR    LEDC4                                 CHECK FOR ENOUGH FREE RAM IN THE BUFFER SPACE FOR THIS BUFFER




                                                                                   B24
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                                               APPENDIX B                                                               ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                   DISASSEMBLY OF SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 1.1                                   REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




       2305     ED93 20 1B                    BRA    LEDB0
       2306     ED95 D6 D2           LED95    LDB    VD1+1                                 GET THE BUFFER NUMBER
       2307     ED97 E1 22           LED97    CMPB   $02,Y                                 COMPARE TO THE BUFFER NUMBER OF THE CURRENT HEADER (HB.NUM)
       2308     ED99 27 37                    BEQ    LEDD2                                 RE-DIMENSIONED ARRAY (DD) ERROR IF THE SAME
       2309     ED9B EE A4                    LDU    ,Y                                    GET THE ADDRESS OF THE NEXT BUFFER
       2310     ED9D 27 04                    BEQ    LEDA3                                 BRANCH IF THIS IS THE LAST HEADER
       2311     ED9F 1F 32                    TFR    U,Y                                   POINT Y TO THE START OF THE NEXT BUFFER HEADER
       2312     EDA1 20 F4                    BRA    LED97                                 KEEP SEARCHING FOR THE LAST HEADER
       2313     EDA3 1F 23           LEDA3    TFR    Y,U                                   SAVE THE START ADDRESS OF THE LAST HEADER IN U
       2314     EDA5 EC 23                    LDD    $03,Y                                 GET THE SIZE OF THE LAST HEADER (HB.SIZE)
       2315     EDA7 31 25                    LEAY   $05,Y                                 SKIP PAST THE HEADER DATA (HB.LEN)
       2316     EDA9 31 AB                    LEAY   D,Y                                   NOW Y POINTS TOT THE START OF FREE BUFFER SPACE
       2317     EDAB 8D 17                    BSR    LEDC4                                 CHECK FOR ENOUGH FREE RAM IN THE BUFFER SPACE FOR THIS BUFFER
       2318     EDAD 10 AF C4                 STY    ,U                                    SAVE THE ADDRESS OF THIS HEADER IN THE PREVIOUS HEADER
       2319     EDB0 CC 00 00        LEDB0    LDD    #0                                    LAST ENTRY FLAG
       2320     EDB3 ED A4                    STD    ,Y                                    MAKE THIS HEADER THE LAST ENTRY
       2321     EDB5 D6 D2                    LDB    VD1+1                                 GET THE BUFFER NUMBER AND
       2322     EDB7 E7 22                    STB    $02,Y                                 SAVE IT IN THE HEADER
       2323     EDB9 DC D3                    LDD    VD3                                   GET THE SIZE OF THE BUFFER AND
       2324     EDBB ED 23                    STD    $03,Y                                 SAVE IT IN THE HEADER TOO
       2325     EDBD BD E0 FF        LEDBD    JSR    SELTASK0                              ENABLE TASK REGISTER 0
       2326     EDC0 BD E0 97                 JSR    SETMMU                                RESET MMU REGISTERS
       2327     EDC3 39                       RTS
       2328     EDC4 1F 21           LEDC4    TFR    Y,X                                   USE X A TEMPORARY POINTER TO THE START OF BUFFER
       2329     EDC6 30 05                    LEAX   $05,X                                 SKIP PAST THE HEADER
       2330     EDC8 DC D3                    LDD    VD3                                   GET THE SIZE OF THE BUFFER AND
       2331     EDCA 30 8B                    LEAX   D,X                                   ADD IT TO THE BUFFER POINTER WHICH NOW POINTS TO THE BUFFER END
       2332     EDCC 8C DF 00                 CMPX   #HRESBUFF+$1F00                       PAST THE END OF THE BUFFER SPACE?
       2333     EDCF 22 05                    BHI    LEDD6                                 'OM' ERROR IF PAST END OF BUFFER SPACE
       2334     EDD1 39                       RTS
       2335     EDD2 C6 12           LEDD2    LDB    #9*2                                  REDIMENSIONED ARRAY ERROR (DD)
       2336     EDD4 20 02                    BRA    LEDD8
       2337     EDD6 C6 0C           LEDD6    LDB    #6*2                                  OUT OF MEMORY ERROR (OM)
       2338     EDD8 10 CE DF FD     LEDD8    LDS    #TMPSTACK-2                           RESET THE STACK TO TEMPORARY LOCATON
       2339     EDDC BD E0 FF                 JSR    SELTASK0                              ENABLE TASK REGISTER 0
       2340     EDDF BD E0 97                 JSR    SETMMU                                RESET THE MMU REGISTERS
       2341     EDE2 7E AC 46                 JMP    LAC46                                 JUMP TO THE ERROR HANDLER
       2342
       2343                          * HGET
       2344     EDE5 8E EE C0        HGET     LDX    #LEEC0                                POINT X TO THE HGET MOVEMENT ROUTINE
       2345     EDE8 9F D5                    STX    VD5                                   SAVE THE MOVEMENT ROUTINE ADDRESS
       2346     EDEA 5F                       CLRB                                         HGET FLAG
       2347     EDEB 20 07                    BRA    LEDF4
       2348
       2349                          * HPUT
       2350     EDED 8E EE EF        HPUT     LDX   #LEEEF                            HPUT MOVEMENT ROUTINE ADDRESS
       2351     EDF0 9F D5                    STX   VD5                               SAVE THE MOVEMENT ROUTINE ADDRESS
       2352     EDF2 C6 01                    LDB   #$01                              HPUT FLAG
       2353     EDF4 0D E6           LEDF4    TST   HRMODE                            IS THE HI-RES GRAPHICS MODE ENABLED?
       2354     EDF6 10 27 F8 F5              LBEQ LE6EF                              'HR' ERROR IF NOT IN HI-RES MODE
       2355     EDFA 10 21 12 02              LBRN RAMLINK                            RAM HOOK
       2356     EDFE D7 D8                    STB   VD8                               SAVE THE GET/PUT FLAG
       2357     EE00 81 40                    CMPA #'@'                               ALLOW HGET@, HPUT@ AS LEGAL SYNTAX
       2358     EE02 26 02                    BNE   LEE06                             BRANCH IF NOT @
       2359     EE04 9D 9F                    JSR   GETNCH                            GET THE NEXT CHARACTER FROM BASIC'S INPUT LINE IF @ WAS THERE
       2360     EE06 BD E9 E1        LEE06    JSR   LE9E1                             EVALUATE THE RECTANGLE BOUNDS
       2361     EE09 BD B2 6D                 JSR   SYNCOMMA                          SYNTAX CHECK FOR COMMA
       2362     EE0C BD B7 0B                 JSR   EVALEXPB                          EVALUATE EXPRESSION, RETURN VALUE IN ACCB
       2363     EE0F D7 D3                    STB   VD3                               SAVE THE BUFFER NUMBER
       2364     EE11 0F D4                    CLR   VD4                               SET THE ACTION FLAG TO SHOW AN ACTION SPECIFIED
       2365     EE13 9D A5                    JSR   GETCCH                            GET BASIC'S CURRENT INPUT CHARACTER
       2366     EE15 27 21                    BEQ   LEE38                             BRANCH IF END OF LINE - NO ACTION SPECIFIED
       2367     EE17 03 D4                    COM   VD4                               SET THE ACTION FLAG TO SHOW THAT AN ACTION WAS SPECIFIED
       2368     EE19 BD B2 6D                 JSR   SYNCOMMA                          SYNTAX CHECK FOR COMMA
       2369     EE1C 0D D8                    TST   VD8                               CHECK THE GET/PUT FLAG
       2370     EE1E 26 03                    BNE   LEE23                             BRANCH IF PUT
       2371     EE20 16 C4 54                 LBRA LB277                              'SYNTAX' ERROR - HGET MAY NOT SPECIFY AN ACTION
       2372     EE23 C6 05           LEE23    LDB   #$05                              FIVE POSSIBLE ACTIONS
       2373     EE25 8E EE E0                 LDX   #LEEE0                            POINT TO THE ACTION ROUTINE ADDRESS
       2374     EE28 EE 81           LEE28    LDU   ,X++                              GET THE ACTION ROUTINE ADDRESS
       2375     EE2A A1 80                    CMPA ,X+                                COMPARE THE DESIRED ACTION TO THIS ROUTINE'S TOKEN
       2376     EE2C 27 06                    BEQ   LEE34                             SEARCH NO MORE - A MATCH WAS FOUND
       2377     EE2E 5A                       DECB                                    DECREMENT COUNTER
       2378     EE2F 26 F7                    BNE   LEE28                             LOOP UNTIL ALL ACTIONS CHECKED
       2379     EE31 7E B2 77                 JMP   LB277                             'SYNTAX' ERROR IF ILLEGAL ACTION DESIRED
       2380     EE34 DF D5           LEE34    STU   VD5                               SAVE THE ACTION ADDRESS
       2381     EE36 9D 9F                    JSR   GETNCH                            GET A CHARACTER FROM BASIC'S INPUT LINE
       2382     EE38 BD E0 CB        LEE38    JSR   LE0CB                             PUT THE HBUFF BLOCK INTO LOGICAL ADDRESS SPACE OF TASK REGISTER 1
       2383     EE3B BD E1 19                 JSR   SELTASK1                          SELECT TASK REGISTER 1
       2384     EE3E D6 D3                    LDB   VD3                               GET THE BUFFER NUMBER
       2385     EE40 BD EF 18                 JSR   LEF18                             GET THE START AND END OF THIS BUFFER'S DATA
       2386     EE43 DC BD                    LDD   HORBEG                            GET THE STARING HORIZONTAL COORDINATE
       2387     EE45 10 93 C3                 CMPD HOREND                             COMPARE IT TO THE ENDING COORDINATE
       2388     EE48 2F 06                    BLE   LEE50                             BRANCH IF START <= END COORDINATE
       2389     EE4A 9E C3                    LDX   HOREND                            GET THE ENDING COORDINATE
       2390     EE4C 9F BD                    STX   HORBEG                            SAVE IT AS THE STARTING COORDINATE
       2391     EE4E DD C3                    STD   HOREND                            NOW SAVE THE STARTING COORDINATE AS THE ENDING COORDINATE
       2392     EE50 DC BF           LEE50    LDD   VERBEG                            GET THE VERTICAL STARTING COORDINATE
       2393     EE52 10 93 C5                 CMPD VEREND                             COMPARE IT TO THE ENDING COORDINATE
       2394     EE55 2F 06                    BLE   LEE5D                             BRANCH IF START <= END COORDINATE
       2395     EE57 9E C5                    LDX   VEREND                            GET THE ENDING COORDINATE
       2396     EE59 9F BF                    STX   VERBEG                            SAVE IT AS THE STARTING COORDINATE
       2397     EE5B DD C5                    STD   VEREND                            NOW SAVE THE STARTING COORDINATE AS THE ENDING COORDINATE
       2398                          * ROUND OFF THE HORIZONTAL START AND END COORDINATES TO AN EVEN NUMBER OF BYTES
       2399     EE5D 96 E6           LEE5D    LDA   HRMODE                            GET THE HI-RES GRAPHICS MODE
       2400     EE5F C6 F8                    LDB   #$F8                              ROUND OFF MASK FOR HSCREEN 3 (EIGHT PIXELS PER BYTE)




                                                                                    B25
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                                              APPENDIX B                                                               ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                  DISASSEMBLY OF SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 1.1                                   REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




       2401     EE61 81 03                   CMPA   #$03                                  HSCREEN 3?
       2402     EE63 27 08                   BEQ    LEE6D
       2403     EE65 C6 FC                   LDB    #$FC                                  ROUND OFF MASK FOR HSCREEN 1 OR 4 (FOUR PIXELS PER BYTE)
       2404     EE67 81 02                   CMPA   #$02                                  HSCREEN 2?
       2405     EE69 26 02                   BNE    LEE6D                                 NO IT'S HSCREEN 1 OR 4
       2406     EE6B C6 FE                   LDB    #$FE                                  ROUND OFF MASK FOR HSCREEN 2 (TWO PIXELS PER BYTE)
       2407     EE6D 1F 98           LEE6D   TFR    B,A                                   SAVE MASK IN BOTH ACCA AND ACCB
       2408     EE6F 94 BE                   ANDA   HORBEG+1                              ROUND OFF HORIZONTAL START COORDINATE
       2409     EE71 97 BE                   STA    HORBEG+1                              SAVE NEW START COORDINATE
       2410     EE73 D4 C4                   ANDB   HOREND+1                              ROUND OFF HORIZONTAL END COORDINATE
       2411     EE75 D7 C4                   STB    HOREND+1                              SAVE NEW END COORDINATE
       2412     EE77 BD E9 DB                JSR    LE9DB                                 CALCULATE THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE HORIZONTAL START AND END
       2413     EE7A DD C3                   STD    HOREND                                SAVE THE HORIZONTAL DIFFERENCE
       2414     EE7C BD E9 CD                JSR    LE9CD                                 CALCULATE THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE VERTICAL START AND END
       2415     EE7F C3 00 01                ADDD   #1                                    ADD ONE TO THE VERTICAL DIFFERENCE (INCLUSIVE START AND END)
       2416     EE82 DD C5                   STD    VEREND                                SAVE THE VERTICAL DIFFERENCE
       2417
       2418                          * CONVERT THE HORIZONTAL DIFFERENCE (IN PIXELS) INTO A BYTE DIFFERENCE
       2419     EE84 96 E6                    LDA   HRMODE                            GET THE HI-RES GRAPHICS MODE
       2420     EE86 81 02                    CMPA #$02                               HSCREEN 2?
       2421     EE88 27 0C                    BEQ   LEE96                             YES; DIVIDE PIXEL COUNT BY TWO (TWO PIXELS PER BYTE)
       2422     EE8A 81 03                    CMPA #$03                               HSCREEN 3?
       2423     EE8C 26 04                    BNE   LEE92                             NO; DIVIDE PIXEL COUNT BY FOUR (FOUR PIXELS PER BYTE)
       2424     EE8E 04 C3                    LSR   HOREND                            * HSCREEN 3; DIVIDE PIXEL COUNT BY EIGHT (EIGHT PIXELS PER BYTE)
       2425     EE90 06 C4                    ROR   HOREND+1                          DIVIDE THE HORIZONTAL DIFFERENCE BY 2
       2426     EE92 04 C3           LEE92    LSR   HOREND
       2427     EE94 06 C4                    ROR   HOREND+1                          DIVIDE THE HORIZONTAL DIFFERENCE BY 2
       2428     EE96 04 C3           LEE96    LSR   HOREND
       2429     EE98 06 C4                    ROR   HOREND+1                          DIVIDE THE HORIZONTAL DIFFERENCE BY 2
       2430     EE9A DC C3                    LDD   HOREND
       2431     EE9C C3 00 01                 ADDD #1                                 ADD ONE TO THE HORIZONTAL DIFFERENCE (INCLUSIVE START AND END)
       2432     EE9F DD C3                    STD   HOREND                            SAVE THE HORIZONTAL DIFFERENCE
       2433     EEA1 BD E7 DA                 JSR   HCALPOS                           POINT X TO THE FIRST BYTE TO MOVE
       2434     EEA4 10 9E D5                 LDY   VD5                               POINT Y TO THE ACTION ADDRESS
       2435     EEA7 D6 C4           LEEA7    LDB   HOREND+1                          GET THE LS BYTE OF HORIZONTAL DIFFERENCE
       2436     EEA9 34 10                    PSHS X                                  SAVE THE MOVEMENT POINTER
       2437     EEAB AD A4           LEEAB    JSR   ,Y                                PERFORM THE APPROPRIATE MOVEMENT ACTION
       2438     EEAD 5A                       DECB                                    DECREMENT THE HORIZONTAL MOVEMENT COUNTER
       2439     EEAE 26 FB                    BNE   LEEAB                             LOOP UNTIL ALL BYTES ON THIS ROW MOVED
       2440     EEB0 35 10                    PULS X                                  RESTORE THE MOVEMENT POINTER
       2441     EEB2 BD EA 45                 JSR   LEA45                             MOVE THE MOVEMENT POINTER DOWN ONE ROW
       2442     EEB5 0A C6                    DEC   VEREND+1                          DECREMENT THE VERTICAL DIFFERENCE (ROW COUNTER)
       2443     EEB7 26 EE                    BNE   LEEA7                             LOOP UNTIL ALL ROWS MOVED
       2444     EEB9 BD E0 FF                 JSR   SELTASK0                          SELECT TASK REGISTER 0 AS THE ACTIVE TASK
       2445     EEBC BD E0 97                 JSR   SETMMU                            SET UP THE MMU REGISTERS
       2446     EEBF 39                       RTS                                     WHY NOT MAKE THE JSR ABOVE A JMP
       2447
       2448                          * HGET'S BYTE MOVEMENT ROUTINE
       2449     EEC0 A6 80           LEEC0    LDA   ,X+                                   GET A BBYTE FROM THE HI-RES SCREEN
       2450     EEC2 8D 03                    BSR   LEEC7                                 POINT U TO PROPER BUFFER LOCATION
       2451     EEC4 A7 C4                    STA   ,U                                    SAVE THE BYTE IN THE BUFFER
       2452     EEC6 39                       RTS
       2453     EEC7 DE CF           LEEC7    LDU   VCF                                   GET THE BUFFER POINTER
       2454     EEC9 33 41                    LEAU $01,U                                  BUMP IT UP BY ONE
       2455     EECB DF CF                    STU   VCF                                   SAVE IT
       2456     EECD 11 93 D1                 CMPU VD1                                    COMPARE THE NEW POINTER TO THE END OF THE BUFFER SPACE
       2457     EED0 22 01                    BHI   LEED3                                 'FC' FUNCTION CALL ERROR IF PAST THE END OF THE BUFFER
       2458     EED2 39                       RTS
       2459     EED3 10 CE DF FD     LEED3    LDS   #TMPSTACK-2                           RESET THE TEMPORARY STACK POINTER
       2460     EED7 BD E0 FF                 JSR   SELTASK0                              SELECT TASK REGISTER 0 AS THE ACTIVE TASK
       2461     EEDA BD E0 97                 JSR   SETMMU                                SET UP THE MMU REGISTERS
       2462     EEDD 7E B4 4A                 JMP   ILLFUNC                               ILLEGAL FUNCTION CALL ERROR
       2463
       2464     EEE0 EE EF           LEEE0   FDB    LEEEF                                 ADDRESS OF PSET ACTION ROUTINE
       2465     EEE2 BD              LEEE2   FCB    $BD                                   TOKEN FOR PSET
       2466     EEE3 EE F6           LEEE3   FDB    LEEF6                                 ADDRESS OF PRESET ACTION ROUTINE
       2467     EEE5 BE              LEEE5   FCB    $BE                                   TOKEN FOR PRESET
       2468     EEE6 EF 07           LEEE6   FDB    LEF07                                 ADDRESS OF OR ACTION ROUTINE
       2469     EEE8 B1              LEEE8   FCB    $B1                                   TOKEN FOR OR
       2470     EEE9 EE FE           LEEE9   FDB    LEEFE                                 ADDRESS OF AND ACTION ROUTINE
       2471     EEEB B0              LEEEB   FCB    $B0                                   TOKEN FOR AND
       2472     EEEC EF 10           LEEEC   FDB    LEF10                                 ADDRESS OF NOT ACTION ROUTINE
       2473     EEEE A8              LEEEE   FCB    $A8                                   TOKEN FOR NOT
       2474
       2475                          * HPUT'S MOVEMENT ROUTINES
       2476                          * PSET (DEFAULT ROUTINE)
       2477     EEEF 8D D6           LEEEF    BSR   LEEC7                                 POINT U TO THE PROPER BUFFER LOCATION
       2478     EEF1 A6 C4                    LDA   ,U                                    GET A BYTE FROM THE BUFFER
       2479     EEF3 A7 80                    STA   ,X+                                   PUT IT BACK ON THE SCREEN
       2480     EEF5 39                       RTS
       2481                          * PRESET
       2482     EEF6 8D CF           LEEF6    BSR   LEEC7                                 POINT U TO THE PROPER BUFFER LOCATION
       2483     EEF8 A6 C4                    LDA   ,U                                    GET A BYTE FROM THE BUFFER
       2484     EEFA 43                       COMA
       2485     EEFB A7 80                    STA   ,X+                                   PUT IT BACK ON THE SCREEN
       2486     EEFD 39                       RTS
       2487                          * AND
       2488     EEFE 8D C7           LEEFE    BSR   LEEC7                                 POINT U TO THE PROPER BUFFER LOCATION
       2489     EF00 A6 C4                    LDA   ,U                                    GET A BYTE FROM THE BUFFER
       2490     EF02 A4 84                    ANDA ,X                                     'AND' IT WITH THE SCREEN DATA
       2491     EF04 A7 80                    STA   ,X+                                   PUT IT BACK ON THE SCREEN
       2492     EF06 39                       RTS
       2493                          * OR
       2494     EF07 8D BE           LEF07    BSR   LEEC7                                 POINT U TO THE PROPER BUFFER LOCATION
       2495     EF09 A6 C4                    LDA   ,U                                    GET A BYTE FROM THE BUFFER
       2496     EF0B AA 84                    ORA   ,X                                    'OR' IT WITH THE SCREEN DATA




                                                                                   B26
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                                              APPENDIX B                                                               ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                  DISASSEMBLY OF SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 1.1                                   REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




       2497     EF0D A7 80                    STA   ,X+                                   PUT IT BACK ON THE SCREEN
       2498     EF0F 39                       RTS
       2499                          * NOT
       2500     EF10 8D B5           LEF10    BSR   LEEC7                                 POINT U TO THE PROPER BUFFER LOCATION
       2501                          * THIS IS A MAJOR BUG - SHOULD BE LDA ,U
       2502     EF12 A6 84                    LDA   ,X                                    GET A BYTE FROM THE SCREEN, SHOULD BE FROM THE BUFFER
       2503     EF14 43                       COMA                                        COMPLEMENT THE BYTE
       2504     EF15 A7 80                    STA   ,X+                                   PUT IT BACK ON THE SCREEN
       2505     EF17 39                       RTS
       2506
       2507     EF18 10 8E C0 00     LEF18   LDY     #HRESBUFF                            POINT Y TO THE START OF THE BUFFER SPACE
       2508     EF1C A6 A4                   LDA     ,Y                                   GET THE FIRST BYTE
       2509     EF1E 81 FF                   CMPA    #$FF                                 ARE ANY BUFFERS ACTIVE?
       2510     EF20 26 0A                   BNE     LEF2C                                YES, SEARCH FOR THE CORRECT BUFFER
       2511     EF22 7E EE D3                JMP     LEED3                                'FC' ERROR IF NO BUFFERS ACTIVE
       2512     EF25 10 AE A4        LEF25   LDY     ,Y                                   SKIP TO NEXT BUFFER
       2513     EF28 10 27 FF A7             LBEQ    LEED3                                'FC' ERROR IF THERE ARE NO MORE ACTIVE BUFFERS
       2514     EF2C E1 22           LEF2C   CMPB    $02,Y                                COMPARE THE DESIRED BUFFER TO THE CURRENT BUFFER NUMBER
       2515     EF2E 26 F5                   BNE     LEF25                                NO, MATCH, CHECK THE NEXT BUFFER
       2516     EF30 EC 23                   LDD     $03,Y                                GET THE SIZE OF THE SELECTED BUFFER
       2517     EF32 31 24                   LEAY    $04,Y                                SKIP TO ONE BYTE BEFORE THE START BUFFER DATA
       2518     EF34 10 9F CF                STY     VCF                                  SAVE THE START OF THE BUFFER DATA
       2519     EF37 31 21                   LEAY    $01,Y                                MOVE TO THE ACTUAL START OF DATA
       2520     EF39 31 AB                   LEAY    D,Y                                  ADD IN THE SIZE OF THE DATA
       2521     EF3B 10 9F D1                STY     VD1                                  SAVE THE ADDRESS OF THE END OF THE DATA
       2522     EF3E 39                      RTS
       2523
       2524                          * HPRINT
       2525     EF3F 0D E6           HPRINT   TST    HRMODE                               CHECK THE HI-RES GRAPHICS MODE
       2526     EF41 10 27 F7 AA              LBEQ   LE6EF                                'HR' ERROR IF NOT HI-RES GRAPHICS MODE
       2527     EF45 10 21 10 B7              LBRN   RAMLINK                              RAM HOOK
       2528     EF49 BD B2 6A                 JSR    LB26A                                SYNTAX CHECK FOR '('
       2529     EF4C BD E7 B2                 JSR    LE7B2                                EVALUATE HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL COORDINATE
       2530     EF4F BD B2 67                 JSR    LB267                                SYNTAX CHECK FOR ')'
       2531     EF52 BD B2 6D                 JSR    SYNCOMMA                             SYNTAX CECK FOR COMMA
       2532     EF55 BD B1 56                 JSR    LB156                                EVALUATE EXPRESSION
       2533     EF58 0D 06                    TST    VALTYP                               CHECK THE TYPE OF VARIABLE EVALUATED
       2534     EF5A 26 06                    BNE    LEF62                                BRANCH IF NOT NUMERIC - REALLY SHOULD BE BMI
       2535     EF5C BD BD D9                 JSR    LBDD9                                CONVERT FLOATING POINT NUMBER INTO A STRING
       2536     EF5F BD B5 16                 JSR    LB516                                SAVE THE STRING IN STRING SPACE
       2537     EF62 BD B6 57        LEF62    JSR    LB657                                CALCULATE THE LENGTH AND ADDRESS OF THE STRING
       2538     EF65 F7 FE 18                 STB    H.PCOUNT                             SAVE THE LENGTH OF THE STRING
       2539     EF68 10 8E FE 19              LDY    #H.PBUF                              POINT TO THE HPRINT BUFFER
       2540     EF6C 5A              LEF6C    DECB                                        DECREMENT THE CHARACTER COUNT
       2541     EF6D 2B 06                    BMI    LEF75                                BRANCH IF ALL CHARACTERS PRINTED
       2542     EF6F A6 80                    LDA    ,X+                                  GET A CHARACTER FROM THE STRING
       2543     EF71 A7 A0                    STA    ,Y+                                  SAVE IT IN THE HPRINT BUFFER
       2544     EF73 20 F7                    BRA    LEF6C                                KEEP GOING UNTIL DONE
       2545     EF75 96 E6           LEF75    LDA    HRMODE                               GET THE HI-RES GRAPHICS MODE
       2546     EF77 C6 28                    LDB    #40                                  40 CHARACTERS MAX IN THE 320 PIXEL WIDE MODE
       2547     EF79 81 03                    CMPA   #$03                                 CHECK THE HSCREEN MODE
       2548     EF7B 25 02                    BCS    LEF7F                                BRANCH IF 40 COLUMN RESOLUTION
       2549     EF7D C6 50                    LDB    #80                                  80 CHARACTERS MAX IN THE 640 PIXEL WIDE MODE
       2550     EF7F 4F              LEF7F    CLRA                                        CLEAR THE MOST SIGNIFICANT BYTE OF ACCD
       2551     EF80 93 BD                    SUBD   HORBEG                               SUBTRACT THE HORIZONTAL PRINT POSITION
       2552     EF82 2B 7D                    BMI    LF001                                EXIT IF HORIZONTAL PRINT POSITION > LINE LENGTH
       2553     EF84 F1 FE 18                 CMPB   H.PCOUNT                             IS THE PRINT CHARACTER COUNT > LINE LENGTH?
       2554     EF87 22 05                    BHI    LEF8E                                BRANCH IF NOT
       2555     EF89 F7 FE 18                 STB    H.PCOUNT                             FORCE THE PRINT CHARACTER COUNT TO EQUAL THE LINE LENGTH
       2556     EF8C 27 73                    BEQ    LF001                                EXIT IF LINE LENGTH = 0
       2557     EF8E 86 17           LEF8E    LDA    #ROWMAX-1                            GET THE HIGHEST POSSIBLE ROW NUMBER
       2558     EF90 91 C0                    CMPA   VERBEG+1                             AND COMPARE IT TO THE PRINT ROW
       2559     EF92 2C 02                    BGE    LEF96                                BRANCH IF PRINTING ON A LEGAL ROW NUMBER
       2560     EF94 97 C0                    STA    VERBEG+1                             PRINT ON BOTTOM ROW (HIGHEST NUMBER) IF ILLEGAL ROW SPECIFIED
       2561     EF96 BD F0 8C        LEF96    JSR    LF08C                                ADJUST ROW AND COLUMN NUMBERS FOR PRINTING ON HI-RES SCREEN
       2562     EF99 BD E7 DA                 JSR    HCALPOS                              POINT X TO THE SCREEN ADDRESS; ACCA = PIXEL MASK
       2563     EF9C 10 8E FE 19              LDY    #H.PBUF                              POINT TO THE HPRINT BUFFER
       2564     EFA0 F6 FE 18                 LDB    H.PCOUNT                             GET THE NUMBER OF CHARACTERS IN THE PRINT BUFFER
       2565     EFA3 A6 A4           LEFA3    LDA    ,Y                                   GET A CHARACTER FROM THE PRINT BUFFER
       2566     EFA5 84 7F                    ANDA   #$7F                                 MASK OFF THE GRAPHICS BIT (BIT 7)
       2567     EFA7 80 20                    SUBA   #$20                                 SUBTRACT OUT THE CONTROL CODES
       2568     EFA9 2A 02                    BPL    LEFAD                                BRANCH IF IT WAS NOT A CONTROL CODE
       2569     EFAB 86 00                    LDA    #$00                                 FORCE A CONTROL CODE TO PRINT A BLANK
       2570     EFAD A7 A0           LEFAD    STA    ,Y+                                  PUT THE 'MASSAGED' CHARACTER BACK INTO THE BUFFER
       2571     EFAF 5A                       DECB                                        BUMP CHARACTER DOWN ONE
       2572     EFB0 2E F1                    BGT    LEFA3                                LOOP UNTIL ALL CHARACTERS DONE
       2573     EFB2 96 E6                    LDA    HRMODE                               GET THE HI-RES GRAPHICS MODE
       2574     EFB4 4A                       DECA                                        CONVERT 1-4 TO 0-3
       2575     EFB5 48                       ALSA                                        MULTIPLY BY TWO - THE LOOKUP TABLE HAS TWO BYTES/ENTRY
       2576     EFB6 10 8E F0 02              LDY    #LF002                               POINT TO THE CHARACTER PRINT ROUTINE ADDRESS TABLE
       2577     EFBA 10 AE A6                 LDY    A,Y                                  GET THE ADDRESS OF THE CHARACTER PRINT ROUTINE
       2578     EFBD 10 9F D1                 STY    VD1                                  AND SAVE IT IN VD1
       2579
       2580                          * THIS SECTION OF CODE WILL PRINT THE BUFFER TO THE HI-RES SCREEN
       2581     EFC0 86 08                    LDA   #$08                              8 ROWS PER HI-RES CHARACTER
       2582     EFC2 97 D3                    STA   VD3                               TEMP SAVE THE ROW COUNTER
       2583     EFC4 10 8E FE 19              LDY   #H.PBUF                           POINT TO THE PRINT BUFFER
       2584     EFC8 CE F0 9D                 LDU   #LF09D                            POINT TO THE HI-RES CHARACTER GENERATOR 'ROM'
       2585     EFCB F6 FE 0A                 LDB   H.FCOLOR                          GET THE FOREGROUND COLOR
       2586     EFCE BD E7 42                 JSR   PIXELFIL                          FILL ACCB WITH ALL FOREGROUND COLOR PIXELS
       2587     EFD1 D7 B5                    STB   ALLCOL                            SAVE THE PIXEL-FILLED BYTE
       2588     EFD3 BD E1 19                 JSR   SELTASK1                          SWITCH IN TASK REGISTER 1
       2589     EFD6 B6 FE 18                 LDA   H.PCOUNT                          GET THE CHARACTER COUNT
       2590     EFD9 34 32           LEFD9    PSHS Y,X,A
       2591     EFDB E6 A0           LEFDB    LDB   ,Y+                               GET A CHARACTER FROM THE PRINT BUFFER
       2592     EFDD 4F                       CLRA                                    CLEAR THE MOST SIGNIFICANT BYTE OF ACCD




                                                                                   B27
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                                                APPENDIX B                                                               ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                    DISASSEMBLY OF SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 1.1                                   REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




       2593     EFDE 58                        ALSB
       2594     EFDF 58                        ALSB
       2595     EFE0 49                        ROLA
       2596     EFE1 58                        ALSB
       2597     EFE2 49                        ROLA                                         MULTIPLY ACCD BY 8 - 8 BYTES PER CHARACTER
       2598     EFE3 A6 CB                     LDA    D,U                                   GET THE FIRST BYTE OF THE GRAPHIC CHARACTER FROM THE 'ROM'
       2599     EFE5 AD 9F 00 D1               JSR    [VD1]                                 PUT THE BYTE ON THE HI-RES SCREEN
       2600     EFE9 7A FE 18                  DEC    H.PCOUNT                              DECREMENT CHARACTER COUNT
       2601     EFEC 2E ED                     BGT    LEFDB                                 KEEP GOING UNTIL ALL CHARACTERS DONE
       2602     EFEE 35 32                     PULS   A,X,Y                                 RESTORE THE PRINT BUFFER POINTER, 'ROM' POINTER & CHAR COUNT
       2603     EFF0 0A D3                     DEC    VD3                                   BUMP THE ROW COUNTER DOWN ONE
       2604     EFF2 27 0A                     BEQ    LEFFE                                 BRANCH IF ALL ROWS DONE
       2605     EFF4 B7 FE 18                  STA    H.PCOUNT                              RESET THE CHARACTER COUNT
       2606     EFF7 33 41                     LEAU   $01,U                                 ADJUST THE 'ROM' POINTER DOWN ONE ROW
       2607     EFF9 BD EA 45                  JSR    LEA45                                 MOVE X DONW ONE HI-RES ROW
       2608     EFFC 20 DB                     BRA    LEFD9                                 KEEP LOOPING UNTIL THE WHOLE ROW IS DONE
       2609     EFFE BD E0 FF          LEFFE   JSR    SELTASK0                              MAKE TASK REGISTER 0 ACTIVE
       2610     F001 39                LF001   RTS
       2611
       2612                            * TABLE OF ADDRESSES OF HI-RES PRINT DRIVERS
       2613     F002 F0 1A             LF002    FDB   LF01A                                 MODE 1
       2614     F004 F0 45             LF004    FDB   LF045                                 MODE 2
       2615     F006 F0 0A             LF006    FDB   LF00A                                 MODE 3
       2616     F008 F0 1A             LF008    FDB   LF01A                                 MODE 4
       2617
       2618                            * MODE 3 PRINT DRIVER
       2619     F00A 34 02             LF00A    PSHS A                                      SAVE THE CHARACTER MASK
       2620     F00C 43                         COMA                                        INVERT THE MASK
       2621     F00D A4 84                      ANDA ,X                                     'AMD' IT WITH THE SCREEN DATA - CREATE A HOLE FOR THE CHARACTER
       2622     F00F A7 84                      STA   ,X                                    DATA AND THEN PUT IT BACK ON THE SCREEN
       2623     F011 35 02                      PULS A                                      GET THE CHARACTER MASK BACK
       2624     F013 94 B5                      ANDA ALLCOL                                 'AND' IT WITH THE PIXEL COLOR BYTE - 'COLOR' THE DATA
       2625     F015 AA 84                      ORA   ,X                                    'OR' IT WITH THE SCREEN DATA - FILL THE 'HOLE' CREATED ABOVE
       2626     F017 A7 80                      STA   ,X+                                   WITH THE 'COLORED' CHARACTER DATA AND PUT THE DATA ON THE SCREEN
       2627     F019 39                         RTS
       2628
       2629                            * MODES 1,4 PRINT DRIVER
       2630     F01A 34 20             LF01A    PSHS Y                                      SAVE THE PRINT BUFFER POINTER
       2631     F01C 10 8E F0 35                LDY   #LF035                                POINT TO THE TABLE OF 4 COLOR PIXEL MASKS
       2632     F020 1F 89                      TFR   A,B                                   COPY CHARACTER DATA TO ACCB
       2633     F022 44                         LSRA
       2634     F023 44                         LSRA
       2635     F024 44                         LSRA
       2636     F025 44                         LSRA                                        SHIFT THE HIGH ORDER NIBBLE TO THE LOW ORDER NIBBLE
       2637     F026 A6 A6                      LDA   A,Y                                   GET THE PIXEL MASK FOR THE HIGH NIBBLE
       2638     F028 BD F0 0A                   JSR   LF00A                                 DISPLAY THE HIGH ORDER NIBBLE DATA ON THE SCREEN
       2639     F02B C4 0F                      ANDB #$0F                                   MASK OFF THE HIGH ORDER NIBBLE
       2640     F02D A6 A5                      LDA   B,Y                                   GET THE PIXEL MASK FOR THE LOW NIBBLE
       2641     F02F BD F0 0A                   JSR   LF00A                                 DISPLAY THE LOW ORDER NIBBLE DATA ON THE SCREEN
       2642     F032 35 20                      PULS Y                                      RESTORE THE PRINT BUFFER POINTER
       2643     F034 39                         RTS
       2644
       2645                            * FOUR COLOR PIXEL MASKS
       2646     F035 00 03 0C 0F 30 33 LF035    FCB   $00,$03,$0C,$0F,$30,$33               4 COLOR PIXEL MASKS
       2647     F03B 3C 3F C0 C3 CC CF          FCB   $3C,$3F,$C0,$C3,$CC,$CF
       2648     F041 F0 F3 FC FF                FCB   $F0,$F3,$FC,$FF
       2649
       2650                            * MODE 2 PRINT DRIVER
       2651     F045 34 22             LF045    PSHS Y,A                                    SAVE THE PRINT BUFFER POINTER AND THE CHARACTER DATA
       2652     F047 10 8E F0 6C                LDY   #LF06C                                POINT TO THE TABLE OF 16 COLOR MASKS
       2653     F04B 44                         LSRA
       2654     F04C 44                         LSRA
       2655     F04D 44                         LSRA
       2656     F04E 44                         LSRA                                        SHIFT THE HIGH ORDER PIXEL TO BITS 0-3
       2657     F04F 48                         ALSA                                        MULTIPLY BY 2, THERE ARE 2 BYTES PER TABLE ENTRY
       2658     F050 EC A6                      LDD   A,Y                                   GET THE FIRST FOUR PIXEL MASKS FROM THE TABLE
       2659     F052 BD F0 0A                   JSR   LF00A                                 DISPLAY THE FIRST TWO PIXELS
       2660     F055 1F 98                      TFR   B,A                                   PUT THE NEXT TWO PIXELS' DATA INTO ACCA
       2661     F057 BD F0 0A                   JSR   LF00A                                 DISPLAY THE NEXT TWO PIXELS
       2662     F05A 35 02                      PULS A                                      GET THE CHARACTER DATA BACK
       2663     F05C 84 0F                      ANDA #$0F                                   MASK OFF THE HIGH NIBBLE
       2664     F05E 48                         ALSA                                        MULTIPLY BY 2, THERE ARE 2 BYTES PER TABLE ENTRY
       2665     F05F EC A6                      LDD   A,Y                                   GET THE LAST FOUR PIXEL MASKS FROM THE TABLE
       2666     F061 BD F0 0A                   JSR   LF00A                                 DISPLAY THE NEXT TWO PIXELS
       2667     F064 1F 98                      TFR   B,A                                   PUT THE NEXT TWO PIXELS' DATA INTO ACCA
       2668     F066 BD F0 0A                   JSR   LF00A                                 DISPLAY THE LAST TWO PIXELS
       2669     F069 35 20                      PULS Y                                      RESTORE THE PRINT BUFFER POINTER
       2670     F06B 39                         RTS                                         WASTED; THIS AND ABOVE INSTRUCTION SHOULD BE PULS Y,PC
       2671
       2672                            * 16 COLOR PIXEL MASKS - DOUBLE BYTE WIDE
       2673     F06C 00 00 00 0F 00 F0 LF06C    FDB   $0000,$000F,$00F0
       2674     F072 00 FF 0F 00 0F 0F          FDB   $00FF,$0F00,$0F0F
       2675     F078 0F F0 0F FF F0 00          FDB   $0FF0,$0FFF,$F000
       2676     F07E F0 0F F0 F0 F0 FF          FDB   $F00F,$F0F0,$F0FF
       2677     F084 FF 00 FF 0F FF F0          FDB   $FF00,$FF0F,$FFF0
       2678     F08A FF FF                      FDB   $FFFF
       2679
       2680                            * CONVERT THE PRINT POSITION FROM CHARACTER ROWS AND COLUMNS TO PIXEL ROWS
       2681                            * AND COLUMNS; EACH CHARACTER IS 8 PIXELS WIDE AND 8 PIXELS DEEP.
       2682     F08C DC BD             LF08C    LDD   HORBEG                            GET THE PRINT COLUMN POSITION
       2683     F08E 58                         ALSB
       2684     F08F 58                         ALSB
       2685     F090 49                         ROLA
       2686     F091 58                         ALSB
       2687     F092 49                         ROLA                                    SHIFT ACCD LEFT THREE TIMES; MULTIPLY COLUMN POSITION BY EIGHT
       2688     F093 DD BD                      STD   HORBEG                            SAVE NEW COLUMN POSITION IN TERMS OF PIXELS (8 PIXELS/CHARACTER)




                                                                                     B28
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                                                APPENDIX B                                                               ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                    DISASSEMBLY OF SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 1.1                                   REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




       2689     F095 96 C0                     LDA    VERBEG+1                              GET THE PRINT ROW NUMBER
       2690     F097 48                        ALSA
       2691     F098 48                        ALSA
       2692     F099 48                        ALSA                                         SHIFT ACCA LEFT THREE TIMES; MULTIPLY ROW POSITION BY EIGHT
       2693     F09A 97 C0                     STA    VERBEG+1                              SAVE NEW ROW POSITION IN TERMS OF PIXELS (8 PIXELS/CHARACTER)
       2694     F09C 39                        RTS
       2695
       2696                            * HI-RES CHARACTER GENERATOR 'ROM'
       2697                            * SPECIAL CHARACTERS AND NUMBERS
       2698     F09D 00 00 00 00 00 00 LF09D    FCB   $00,$00,$00,$00,$00,$00               BLANK
       2699     F0A3 00 00                      FCB   $00,$00
       2700     F0A5 10 10 10 10 10 00 LF0A5    FCB   $10,$10,$10,$10,$10,$00               !
       2701     F0AB 10 00                      FCB   $10,$00
       2702     F0AD 28 28 28 00 00 00 LF0AD    FCB   $28,$28,$28,$00,$00,$00               "
       2703     F0B3 00 00                      FCB   $00,$00
       2704     F0B5 28 28 7C 28 7C 28 LF0B5    FCB   $28,$28,$7C,$28,$7C,$28               #
       2705     F0BB 28 00                      FCB   $28,$00
       2706     F0BD 10 3C 50 38 14 78 LF0BD    FCB   $10,$3C,$50,$38,$14,$78               $
       2707     F0C3 10 00                      FCB   $10,$00
       2708     F0C5 60 64 08 10 20 4C LF0C5    FCB   $60,$64,$08,$10,$20,$4C               %
       2709     F0CB 0C 00                      FCB   $0C,$00
       2710     F0CD 20 50 50 20 54 48 LF0CD    FCB   $20,$50,$50,$20,$54,$48               &
       2711     F0D3 34 00                      FCB   $34,$00
       2712     F0D5 10 10 20 00 00 00 LF0D5    FCB   $10,$10,$20,$00,$00,$00               '
       2713     F0DB 00 00                      FCB   $00,$00
       2714     F0DD 08 10 20 20 20 10 LF0DD    FCB   $08,$10,$20,$20,$20,$10               (
       2715     F0E3 08 00                      FCB   $08,$00
       2716     F0E5 20 10 08 08 08 10 LF0E5    FCB   $20,$10,$08,$08,$08,$10               )
       2717     F0EB 20 00                      FCB   $20,$00
       2718     F0ED 00 10 54 38 38 54 LF0ED    FCB   $00,$10,$54,$38,$38,$54               *
       2719     F0F3 10 00                      FCB   $10,$00
       2720     F0F5 00 10 10 7C 10 10 LF0F5    FCB   $00,$10,$10,$7C,$10,$10               +
       2721     F0FB 00 00                      FCB   $00,$00
       2722     F0FD 00 00 00 00 00 10 LF0FD    FCB   $00,$00,$00,$00,$00,$10               ,
       2723     F103 10 20                      FCB   $10,$20
       2724     F105 00 00 00 7C 00 00 LF105    FCB   $00,$00,$00,$7C,$00,$00               -
       2725     F10B 00 00                      FCB   $00,$00
       2726     F10D 00 00 00 00 00 00 LF10D    FCB   $00,$00,$00,$00,$00,$00               .
       2727     F113 10 00                      FCB   $10,$00
       2728     F115 00 04 08 10 20 40 LF115    FCB   $00,$04,$08,$10,$20,$40               /
       2729     F11B 00 00                      FCB   $00,$00
       2730     F11D 38 44 4C 54 64 44 LF11D    FCB   $38,$44,$4C,$54,$64,$44               0
       2731     F123 38 00                      FCB   $38,$00
       2732     F125 10 30 10 10 10 10 LF125    FCB   $10,$30,$10,$10,$10,$10               1
       2733     F12B 38 00                      FCB   $38,$00
       2734     F12D 38 44 04 38 40 40 LF12D    FCB   $38,$44,$04,$38,$40,$40               2
       2735     F133 7C 00                      FCB   $7C,$00
       2736     F135 38 44 04 08 04 44 LF135    FCB   $38,$44,$04,$08,$04,$44               3
       2737     F13B 38 00                      FCB   $38,$00
       2738     F13D 08 18 28 48 7C 08 LF13D    FCB   $08,$18,$28,$48,$7C,$08               4
       2739     F143 08 00                      FCB   $08,$00
       2740     F145 7C 40 78 04 04 44 LF145    FCB   $7C,$40,$78,$04,$04,$44               5
       2741     F14B 38 00                      FCB   $38,$00
       2742     F14D 38 40 40 78 44 44 LF14D    FCB   $38,$40,$40,$78,$44,$44               6
       2743     F153 38 00                      FCB   $38,$00
       2744     F155 7C 04 08 10 20 40 LF155    FCB   $7C,$04,$08,$10,$20,$40               7
       2745     F15B 40 00                      FCB   $40,$00
       2746     F15D 38 44 44 38 44 44 LF15D    FCB   $38,$44,$44,$38,$44,$44               8
       2747     F163 38 00                      FCB   $38,$00
       2748     F165 38 44 44 38 04 04 LF165    FCB   $38,$44,$44,$38,$04,$04               9
       2749     F16B 38 00                      FCB   $38,$00
       2750     F16D 00 00 10 00 00 10 LF16D    FCB   $00,$00,$10,$00,$00,$10               :
       2751     F173 00 00                      FCB   $00,$00
       2752     F175 00 00 10 00 00 10 LF175    FCB   $00,$00,$10,$00,$00,$10               ;
       2753     F17B 10 20                      FCB   $10,$20
       2754     F17D 08 10 20 40 20 10 LF17D    FCB   $08,$10,$20,$40,$20,$10               >
       2755     F183 08 00                      FCB   $08,$00
       2756     F185 00 00 7C 00 7C 00 LF185    FCB   $00,$00,$7C,$00,$7C,$00               =
       2757     F18B 00 00                      FCB   $00,$00
       2758     F18D 20 10 08 04 08 10 LF18D    FCB   $20,$10,$08,$04,$08,$10               <
       2759     F193 20 00                      FCB   $20,$00
       2760     F195 38 44 04 08 10 00 LF195    FCB   $38,$44,$04,$08,$10,$00               ?
       2761     F19B 10 00                      FCB   $10,$00
       2762
       2763                            * UPPER CASE CHARACTERS
       2764     F19D 38 44 04 34 4C 4C LF19D    FCB   $38,$44,$04,$34,$4C,$4C               @
       2765     F1A3 38 00                      FCB   $38,$00
       2766     F1A5 10 28 44 44 7C 44 LF1A5    FCB   $10,$28,$44,$44,$7C,$44               A
       2767     F1AB 44 00                      FCB   $44,$00
       2768     F1AD 78 24 24 38 24 24 LF1AD    FCB   $78,$24,$24,$38,$24,$24               B
       2769     F1B3 78 00                      FCB   $78,$00
       2770     F1B5 38 44 40 40 40 44 LF1B5    FCB   $38,$44,$40,$40,$40,$44               C
       2771     F1BB 38 00                      FCB   $38,$00
       2772     F1BD 78 24 24 24 24 24 LF1BD    FCB   $78,$24,$24,$24,$24,$24               D
       2773     F1C3 78 00                      FCB   $78,$00
       2774     F1C5 7C 40 40 70 40 40 LF1C5    FCB   $7C,$40,$40,$70,$40,$40               E
       2775     F1CB 7C 00                      FCB   $7C,$00
       2776     F1CD 7C 40 40 70 40 40 LF1CD    FCB   $7C,$40,$40,$70,$40,$40               F
       2777     F1D3 40 00                      FCB   $40,$00
       2778     F1D5 38 44 40 40 4C 44 LF1D5    FCB   $38,$44,$40,$40,$4C,$44               G
       2779     F1DB 38 00                      FCB   $38,$00
       2780     F1DD 44 44 44 7C 44 44 LF1DD    FCB   $44,$44,$44,$7C,$44,$44               H
       2781     F1E3 44 00                      FCB   $44,$00
       2782     F1E5 38 10 10 10 10 10 LF1E5    FCB   $38,$10,$10,$10,$10,$10               I
       2783     F1EB 38 00                      FCB   $38,$00
       2784     F1ED 04 04 04 04 04 44 LF1ED    FCB   $04,$04,$04,$04,$04,$44               J




                                                                                     B29
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                                                APPENDIX B                               ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                    DISASSEMBLY OF SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 1.1   REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




       2785     F1F3 38 00                     FCB    $38,$00
       2786     F1F5 44 48 50 60 50 48 LF1F5   FCB    $44,$48,$50,$60,$50,$48               K
       2787     F1FB 44 00                     FCB    $44,$00
       2788     F1FD 40 40 40 40 40 40 LF1FD   FCB    $40,$40,$40,$40,$40,$40               L
       2789     F203 7C 00                     FCB    $7C,$00
       2790     F205 44 6C 54 54 44 44 LF205   FCB    $44,$6C,$54,$54,$44,$44               M
       2791     F20B 44 00                     FCB    $44,$00
       2792     F20D 44 44 64 54 4C 44 LF20D   FCB    $44,$44,$64,$54,$4C,$44               N
       2793     F213 44 00                     FCB    $44,$00
       2794     F215 38 44 44 44 44 44 LF215   FCB    $38,$44,$44,$44,$44,$44               O
       2795     F21B 38 00                     FCB    $38,$00
       2796     F21D 78 44 44 78 40 40 LF21D   FCB    $78,$44,$44,$78,$40,$40               P
       2797     F223 40 00                     FCB    $40,$00
       2798     F225 38 44 44 44 54 48 LF225   FCB    $38,$44,$44,$44,$54,$48               Q
       2799     F22B 34 00                     FCB    $34,$00
       2800     F22D 78 44 44 78 50 48 LF22D   FCB    $78,$44,$44,$78,$50,$48               R
       2801     F233 44 00                     FCB    $44,$00
       2802     F235 38 44 40 38 04 44 LF235   FCB    $38,$44,$40,$38,$04,$44               S
       2803     F23B 38 00                     FCB    $38,$00
       2804     F23D 7C 10 10 10 10 10 LF23D   FCB    $7C,$10,$10,$10,$10,$10               T
       2805     F243 10 00                     FCB    $10,$00
       2806     F245 44 44 44 44 44 44 LF245   FCB    $44,$44,$44,$44,$44,$44               U
       2807     F24B 38 00                     FCB    $38,$00
       2808     F24D 44 44 44 28 28 10 LF24D   FCB    $44,$44,$44,$28,$28,$10               V
       2809     F253 10 00                     FCB    $10,$00
       2810     F255 44 44 44 44 54 6C LF255   FCB    $44,$44,$44,$44,$54,$6C               W
       2811     F25B 44 00                     FCB    $44,$00
       2812     F25D 44 44 28 10 28 44 LF25D   FCB    $44,$44,$28,$10,$28,$44               X
       2813     F263 44 00                     FCB    $44,$00
       2814     F265 44 44 28 10 10 10 LF265   FCB    $44,$44,$28,$10,$10,$10               Y
       2815     F26B 10 00                     FCB    $10,$00
       2816     F26D 7C 04 08 10 20 40 LF26D   FCB    $7C,$04,$08,$10,$20,$40               Z
       2817     F273 7C 00                     FCB    $7C,$00
       2818     F275 38 20 20 20 20 20 LF275   FCB    $38,$20,$20,$20,$20,$20               ]
       2819     F27B 38 00                     FCB    $38,$00
       2820     F27D 00 40 20 10 08 04 LF27D   FCB    $00,$40,$20,$10,$08,$04               \
       2821     F283 00 00                     FCB    $00,$00
       2822     F285 38 08 08 08 08 08 LF285   FCB    $38,$08,$08,$08,$08,$08               [
       2823     F28B 38 00                     FCB    $38,$00
       2824     F28D 10 38 54 10 10 10 LF28D   FCB    $10,$38,$54,$10,$10,$10               UP ARROW
       2825     F293 10 00                     FCB    $10,$00
       2826     F295 00 10 20 7C 20 10 LF295   FCB    $00,$10,$20,$7C,$20,$10               LEFT ARROW
       2827     F29B 00 00                     FCB    $00,$00
       2828
       2829                            * LOWER CASE CHARACTERS
       2830     F29D 10 28 44 00 00 00 LF29D    FCB   $10,$28,$44,$00,$00,$00               ^
       2831     F2A3 00 00                      FCB   $00,$00
       2832     F2A5 00 00 38 04 3C 44 LF2A5    FCB   $00,$00,$38,$04,$3C,$44               a
       2833     F2AB 3C 00                      FCB   $3C,$00
       2834     F2AD 40 40 58 64 44 64 LF2AD    FCB   $40,$40,$58,$64,$44,$64               b
       2835     F2B3 58 00                      FCB   $58,$00
       2836     F2B5 00 00 38 44 40 44 LF2B5    FCB   $00,$00,$38,$44,$40,$44               c
       2837     F2BB 38 00                      FCB   $38,$00
       2838     F2BD 04 04 34 4C 44 4C LF2BD    FCB   $04,$04,$34,$4C,$44,$4C               d
       2839     F2C3 34 00                      FCB   $34,$00
       2840     F2C5 00 00 38 44 7C 40 LF2C5    FCB   $00,$00,$38,$44,$7C,$40               e
       2841     F2CB 38 00                      FCB   $38,$00
       2842     F2CD 08 14 10 38 10 10 LF2CD    FCB   $08,$14,$10,$38,$10,$10               f
       2843     F2D3 10 00                      FCB   $10,$00
       2844     F2D5 00 00 34 4C 4C 34 LF2D5    FCB   $00,$00,$34,$4C,$4C,$34               g
       2845     F2DB 04 38                      FCB   $04,$38
       2846     F2DD 40 40 58 64 44 44 LF2DD    FCB   $40,$40,$58,$64,$44,$44               h
       2847     F2E3 44 00                      FCB   $44,$00
       2848     F2E5 00 10 00 30 10 10 LF2E5    FCB   $00,$10,$00,$30,$10,$10               i
       2849     F2EB 38 00                      FCB   $38,$00
       2850     F2ED 00 04 00 04 04 04 LF2ED    FCB   $00,$04,$00,$04,$04,$04               j
       2851     F2F3 44 38                      FCB   $44,$38
       2852     F2F5 40 40 48 50 60 50 LF2F5    FCB   $40,$40,$48,$50,$60,$50               k
       2853     F2FB 48 00                      FCB   $48,$00
       2854     F2FD 30 10 10 10 10 10 LF2FD    FCB   $30,$10,$10,$10,$10,$10               l
       2855     F303 38 00                      FCB   $38,$00
       2856     F305 00 00 68 54 54 54 LF305    FCB   $00,$00,$68,$54,$54,$54               m
       2857     F30B 54 00                      FCB   $54,$00
       2858     F30D 00 00 58 64 44 44 LF30D    FCB   $00,$00,$58,$64,$44,$44               n
       2859     F313 44 00                      FCB   $44,$00
       2860     F315 00 00 38 44 44 44 LF315    FCB   $00,$00,$38,$44,$44,$44               o
       2861     F31B 38 00                      FCB   $38,$00
       2862     F31D 00 00 78 44 44 78 LF31D    FCB   $00,$00,$78,$44,$44,$78               p
       2863     F323 40 40                      FCB   $40,$40
       2864     F325 00 00 3C 44 44 3C LF325    FCB   $00,$00,$3C,$44,$44,$3C               q
       2865     F32B 04 04                      FCB   $04,$04
       2866     F32D 00 00 58 64 40 40 LF32D    FCB   $00,$00,$58,$64,$40,$40               r
       2867     F333 40 00                      FCB   $40,$00
       2868     F335 00 00 3C 40 38 04 LF335    FCB   $00,$00,$3C,$40,$38,$04               s
       2869     F33B 78 00                      FCB   $78,$00
       2870     F33D 20 20 70 20 20 24 LF33D    FCB   $20,$20,$70,$20,$20,$24               t
       2871     F343 18 00                      FCB   $18,$00
       2872     F345 00 00 44 44 44 4C LF345    FCB   $00,$00,$44,$44,$44,$4C               u
       2873     F34B 34 00                      FCB   $34,$00
       2874     F34D 00 00 44 44 44 28 LF34D    FCB   $00,$00,$44,$44,$44,$28               v
       2875     F353 10 00                      FCB   $10,$00
       2876     F355 00 00 44 54 54 28 LF355    FCB   $00,$00,$44,$54,$54,$28               w
       2877     F35B 28 00                      FCB   $28,$00
       2878     F35D 00 00 44 28 10 28 LF35D    FCB   $00,$00,$44,$28,$10,$28               x
       2879     F363 44 00                      FCB   $44,$00
       2880     F365 00 00 44 44 44 3C LF365    FCB   $00,$00,$44,$44,$44,$3C               y




                                                                                     B30
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                                                APPENDIX B                                                               ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                    DISASSEMBLY OF SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 1.1                                   REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




       2881     F36B 04 38                     FCB    $04,$38
       2882     F36D 00 00 7C 08 10 20 LF36D   FCB    $00,$00,$7C,$08,$10,$20               z
       2883     F373 7C 00                     FCB    $7C,$00
       2884     F375 08 10 10 20 10 10 LF375   FCB    $08,$10,$10,$20,$10,$10               {
       2885     F37B 08 00                     FCB    $08,$00
       2886     F37D 10 10 10 00 10 10 LF37D   FCB    $10,$10,$10,$00,$10,$10               |
       2887     F383 10 00                     FCB    $10,$00
       2888     F385 20 10 10 08 10 10 LF385   FCB    $20,$10,$10,$08,$10,$10               }
       2889     F38B 20 00                     FCB    $20,$00
       2890     F38D 20 54 08 00 00 00 LF38D   FCB    $20,$54,$08,$00,$00,$00               ~
       2891     F393 00 00                     FCB    $00,$00
       2892     F395 00 00 00 00 00 00 LF395   FCB    $00,$00,$00,$00,$00,$00               underline
       2893     F39B 7C 00                     FCB    $7C,$00
       2894
       2895                            * HDRAW
       2896     F39D 0D E6             HDRAW   TST    HRMODE                                CHECK HI-RES GRAPHICS MODE
       2897     F39F 10 27 F3 4C               LBEQ   LE6EF                                 'HR' ERROR IF HI-RES MODE NOT ENABLED
       2898     F3A3 10 21 0C 59               LBRN   RAMLINK                               RAM HOOK
       2899     F3A7 8E 00 00                  LDX    #0                                    * X=0, ACCB=1; END OF DRAW COMMAND LINE VALUES
       2900     F3AA C6 01                     LDB    #$01                                  * WHEN THESE VALUES ARE PULLED OFF THE STACK,
       2901     F3AC 34 14                     PSHS   X,B                                   * THE DRAW COMMAND WILL END
       2902     F3AE D7 C2                     STB    SETFLG                                SET PSET/PRESET FLAG TO PSET
       2903     F3B0 9F D5                     STX    VD5                                   CLEAR UPDATE AND DRAW FLAGS
       2904     F3B2 BD E7 31                  JSR    LE731                                 SET ACTIVE COLOR BYTE
       2905     F3B5 BD B1 56                  JSR    LB156                                 EVALUATE EXPRESSION
       2906     F3B8 BD B6 54          LF3B8   JSR    LB654                                 GET LENGTH AND ADDRESS OF COMMAND STRING
       2907     F3BB 20 08                     BRA    LF3C5                                 INTERPRET THE COMMAND STRING
       2908     F3BD BD F5 91          LF3BD   JSR    LF591                                 GET THE NEXT CHARACTER FROM THE COMMAND LINE
       2909     F3C0 7E F5 A7                  JMP    LF5A7                                 EVALUATE A DECIMAL VALUE IN COMMAND LINE
       2910     F3C3 35 14             LF3C3   PULS   B,X                                   GET NEXT COMMAND LINE TO BE INTERPRETED FROM THE STACK
       2911     F3C5 D7 D8             LF3C5   STB    VD8                                   SET COMMAND LENGTH COUNTER
       2912     F3C7 27 FA                     BEQ    LF3C3                                 GET NEW COMMAND LINE IF ZERO
       2913     F3C9 9F D9                     STX    VD9                                   SET COMMAND LINE ADDRESS
       2914     F3CB 10 27 01 01               LBEQ   LF4D0                                 EXIT ROUTINE IF ADDRESS = 0
       2915     F3CF 0D D8             LF3CF   TST    VD8                                   TEST COMMAND LENGTH COUNTER
       2916     F3D1 27 F0                     BEQ    LF3C3                                 GET NEW LINE IF 0
       2917     F3D3 BD F5 91                  JSR    LF591                                 GET A COMMAND CHARACTER
       2918     F3D6 81 3B                     CMPA   #';'                                  CHECK FOR A SEMI-COLON
       2919     F3D8 27 F5                     BEQ    LF3CF                                 IGNORE SEMI-COLONS
       2920     F3DA 81 27                     CMPA   #'''                                  CHECK FOR APOSTROPHE
       2921     F3DC 27 F1                     BEQ    LF3CF                                 IGNORE APOSTROPHE
       2922     F3DE 81 4E                     CMPA   #'N'                                  UPDATE CHECK?
       2923     F3E0 26 04                     BNE    LF3E6                                 BRANCH IF NOT
       2924     F3E2 03 D5                     COM    VD5                                   TOGGLE UPDATE FLAG; 0 = UPDATE, FF = NO UPDATE
       2925     F3E4 20 E9                     BRA    LF3CF                                 GET NEXT COMMAND
       2926     F3E6 81 42             LF3E6   CMPA   #'B'                                  CHECK DRAW FLAG?
       2927     F3E8 26 04                     BNE    LF3EE                                 BRANCH IF NOT
       2928     F3EA 03 D6                     COM    VD6                                   TOGGLE DRAW FLAG; 0 = DRAW LINE, FF = DON'T DRAW LINE
       2929     F3EC 20 E1                     BRA    LF3CF                                 GET ENXT COMMAND
       2930     F3EE 81 58             LF3EE   CMPA   #'X'                                  SUBSTRING?
       2931     F3F0 10 27 00 AD               LBEQ   LF4A1                                 GO EXECUTE A COMMAND SUBSTRING
       2932     F3F4 81 4D                     CMPA   #'M'                                  MOVE THE DRAW POSITION?
       2933     F3F6 10 27 01 52               LBEQ   LF54C                                 BRANCH IF YES, GO MOVE IT
       2934     F3FA 34 02                     PSHS   A                                     SAVE CURRENT COMMAND
       2935     F3FC C6 01                     LDB    #$01                                  DEFAULT VALUE IF NO NUMBER FOLLOWS COMMAND
       2936     F3FE 0F D3                     CLR    VD3                                   CLEAR MS BYTE OF SUBCOMMAND VALUE
       2937     F400 D7 D4                     STB    VD4                                   SAVE LS BYTE OF SUBCOMMAND VALUE
       2938     F402 0D D8                     TST    VD8                                   CHECK COMMAND LENGTH COUNTER
       2939     F404 27 11                     BEQ    LF417                                 BRANCH IF NO COMMANDS LEFT
       2940     F406 BD F5 91                  JSR    LF591                                 GET A COMMAND CHARACTER
       2941     F409 BD B3 A2                  JSR    LB3A2                                 SET CARRY IF NOT ALPHA
       2942     F40C 34 01                     PSHS   CC                                    SAVE CARRY FLAG
       2943     F40E BD F5 F2                  JSR    LF5F2                                 MOVE COMMAND POINTER BACK ONE
       2944     F411 35 01                     PULS   CC                                    RESTORE CARRY FLAG
       2945     F413 24 02                     BCC    LF417                                 BRANCH IF NEXT COMMAND IS ALPHA
       2946     F415 8D A6                     BSR    LF3BD                                 EVALUATE DECIMAL COMMAND LINE VALUE - RETURN VALUE IN ACCD & VD3
       2947     F417 35 02             LF417   PULS   A                                     GET CURRENT COMMAND BACK
       2948     F419 81 43                     CMPA   #'C'                                  CHANGE COLOR?
       2949     F41B 27 28                     BEQ    LF445                                 BRANCH IF YES
       2950     F41D 81 41                     CMPA   #'A'                                  CHANGE ANGLE?
       2951     F41F 27 30                     BEQ    LF451                                 BRANCH IF YES
       2952     F421 81 53                     CMPA   #'S'                                  CHANGE SCALE?
       2953     F423 27 37                     BEQ    LF45C                                 BRANCH IF YES
       2954     F425 81 55                     CMPA   #'U'                                  GO UP?
       2955     F427 27 6D                     BEQ    LF496                                 BRANCH IF YES
       2956     F429 81 44                     CMPA   #'D'                                  GO DOWN?
       2957     F42B 27 65                     BEQ    LF492                                 BRANCH IF YES
       2958     F42D 81 4C                     CMPA   #'L'                                  GO LEFT?
       2959     F42F 27 5B                     BEQ    LF48C                                 BRANCH IF YES
       2960     F431 81 52                     CMPA   #'R'                                  GO RIGHT?
       2961     F433 27 50                     BEQ    LF485                                 BRANCH IF YES
       2962     F435 80 45                     SUBA   #'E'                                  MASK OFF ASCII FOR LETTER E-H COMMAND CHECKS
       2963     F437 27 3A                     BEQ    LF473                                 BRANCH IF E (45 DEGREES)
       2964     F439 4A                        DECA                                         CHECK FOR F
       2965     F43A 27 31                     BEQ    LF46D                                 BRANCH IF F (135 DEGREES)
       2966     F43C 4A                        DECA                                         CHECK FOR G
       2967     F43D 27 3E                     BEQ    LF47D                                 BRANCH IF G (225 DEGREES)
       2968     F43F 4A                        DECA                                         CHECK FOR H
       2969     F440 27 25                     BEQ    LF467                                 BRANCH IF H (315 DEGREES)
       2970     F442 7E B4 4A                  JMP    ILLFUNC                               ILLEGAL FUNCTION CALL ERROR IF ILLEGAL SUBCOMMAND
       2971
       2972                            * CHANGE COLOR
       2973     F445 BD E7 11          LF445    JSR   LE711                                 ADJUST COLOR CODE FOR PROPER GRAPHICS MODE
       2974     F448 F7 FE 0A                   STB   H.FCOLOR                              SAVE NEW FOREGROUND COLOR
       2975     F44B BD E7 31                   JSR   LE731                                 SET UP COLOR BYTES
       2976     F44E 16 FF 7E                   LBRA LF3CF                                  GO PROCESS ANOTHER COMMAND




                                                                                     B31
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                                              APPENDIX B                                                           ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                  DISASSEMBLY OF SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 1.1                               REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




       2977                          * CHANGE ANGLE
       2978     F451 C1 04           LF451    CMPB #$04                               ONLY ANGLES 0-3 ARE LEGAL
       2979     F453 10 24 BF F3              LBCC ILLFUNC                            ILLEGAL FUNCTION CALL ERROR
       2980     F457 D7 E8                    STB   ANGLE                             SAVE DRAW ANGLE
       2981     F459 16 FF 73                 LBRA LF3CF                              GO PROCESS ANOTHER COMMAND
       2982                          * CHANGE SCALE
       2983     F45C C1 3F           LF45C    CMPB #63                                ONLY 0-63 ARE LEGAL
       2984     F45E 10 24 BF E8              LBCC ILLFUNC                            ILLEGAL FUNCTION CALL ERROR
       2985     F462 D7 E9                    STB   SCALE                             SAVE DRAW SCALE
       2986     F464 16 FF 68                 LBRA LF3CF                              GO PROCESS ANOTHER COMMAND
       2987                          * 315 DEGREES
       2988     F467 96 D3           LF467    LDA   VD3                               NOW ACCD = VALUE OF THE SUBCOMMAND
       2989     F469 8D 61                    BSR   NEGACCD                           MAKE HORIZONTAL DIFFERENCE NEGATIVE
       2990     F46B 20 02                    BRA   LF46F                             BRANCH AROUND NEXT INSTRUCTION
       2991                          * 135 DEGREES
       2992     F46D 96 D3           LF46D    LDA   VD3                               NOW ACCD = VALUE OF THE SUBCOMMAND
       2993     F46F 1F 01           LF46F    TFR   D,X                               COPY HORIZONTAL DIFFERENCE TO VERTICAL DIFFERENCE
       2994     F471 20 61                    BRA   LF4D4                             GO MOVE THE DRAW POSITION
       2995                          * 45 DEGREES
       2996     F473 96 D3           LF473    LDA   VD3                               NOW ACCD = VALUE OF THE SUBCOMMAND
       2997     F475 1F 01                    TFR   D,X                               COPY HORIZONTAL DIFFERENCE TO VERTICAL DIFFERENCE
       2998     F477 8D 53                    BSR   NEGACCD                           MAKE HORIZONTAL DIFFERENCE NEGATIVE
       2999     F479 1E 01                    EXG   D,X                               SWAP HOR AND VER DIFFERENCES
       3000     F47B 20 57                    BRA   LF4D4                             GO MOVE THE DRAW POSITION
       3001                          * 225 DEGREES
       3002     F47D 96 D3           LF47D    LDA   VD3                               NOW ACCD = VALUE OF THE SUBCOMMAND
       3003     F47F 1F 01                    TFR   D,X                               COPY HORIZONTAL DIFFERENCE TO VERTICAL DIFFERENCE
       3004     F481 8D 49                    BSR   NEGACCD                           MAKE HORIZONTAL DIFFERENCE NEGATIVE
       3005     F483 20 4F                    BRA   LF4D4                             GO MOVE THE DRAW POSITION
       3006                          * GO RIGHT
       3007     F485 96 D3           LF485    LDA   VD3                               NOW ACCD = VALUE OF THE SUBCOMMAND
       3008     F487 8E 00 00        LF487    LDX   #0                                X=0; VERT DIFFERENCE = 0
       3009     F48A 20 48                    BRA   LF4D4                             GO MOVE THE DRAW POSITION
       3010                          * GO LEFT
       3011     F48C 96 D3           LF48C    LDA   VD3                               NOW ACCD = VALUE OF THE SUBCOMMAND
       3012     F48E 8D 3C                    BSR   NEGACCD                           MAKE HORIZONTAL DIFFERENCE NEGATIVE
       3013     F490 20 F5                    BRA   LF487                             MAKE VERTICAL DIFFERENCE ZERO AND MOVE THE DRAW POSITION
       3014                          * GO DOWN
       3015     F492 96 D3           LF492    LDA   VD3                               NOW ACCD = VALUE OF THE SUBCOMMAND
       3016     F494 20 04                    BRA   LF49A                             MAKE VER DIFF=0, EXCHANGE HOR & VER DIFFS AND MOVE DRAW POSITION
       3017                          * GO UP
       3018     F496 96 D3           LF496    LDA   VD3                               NOW ACCD = VALUE OF THE SUBCOMMAND
       3019     F498 8D 32                    BSR   NEGACCD                           MAKE HORIZONTAL DIFFERENCE NEGATIVE
       3020     F49A 8E 00 00        LF49A    LDX   #0                                X=0; HORIZONTAL DIFFERENCE = 0
       3021     F49D 1E 10                    EXG   X,D                               SWAP HOR AND VER DIFFERENCES
       3022     F49F 20 33                    BRA   LF4D4                             GO MOVE THE DRAW POSITION
       3023                          * EXECUTE A COMMAND SUB STRING
       3024     F4A1 BD F6 11        LF4A1    JSR   LF611                             INTERPRET CURRENT COMMAND AS IF IT WERE A BASIC VARIABLE
       3025     F4A4 C6 02                    LDB   #$02                              =
       3026     F4A6 BD AC 33                 JSR   LAC33                             = SEE IF AT LEAST FOUR BYTES OF FREE RAM ARE LEFT
       3027     F4A9 D6 D8                    LDB   VD8                               GET CURRENT COMMAND LENGTH
       3028     F4AB 9E D9                    LDX   VD9                               GET CURRENT COMMAND COUNTER
       3029     F4AD 34 14                    PSHS X,B                                SAVE THEM ON THE STACK
       3030     F4AF 7E F3 B8                 JMP   LF3B8                             EVALUATE NUMERICAL VALUE IN COMMAND LINE
       3031                          * MULTIPLY HOR OR VER DIFFERENCE BY SCALE FACTOR, DIVIDE PRODUCT BY 4 AND RETURN VALUE IN ACCD
       3032     F4B2 D6 E9           LF4B2    LDB   SCALE                             GET DRAW SCALE
       3033     F4B4 27 1B                    BEQ   LF4D1                             BRANCH IF ZERO (DEFAULT TO FULL SCALE)
       3034     F4B6 4F                       CLRA                                    CLEAR THE MS BYTE
       3035     F4B7 1E 01                    EXG   D,X                               SWAP DIFFERENCE AND SCALE FACTOR
       3036     F4B9 A7 E2                    STA   ,-S                               SAVE MS BYTE OF DIFFERENCE ON STACK (SIGN INFORMATION)
       3037     F4BB 2A 02                    BPL   LF4BF                             BRANCH IF POSITIVE DIFFERENCE
       3038     F4BD 8D 0D                    BSR   NEGACCD                           FORCE THE DIFFERENCE TO BE A POSITIVE VALUE
       3039     F4BF BD EB CB        LF4BF    JSR   LEBCB                             MULT DIFFERENCE BY SCALE FACTOR
       3040     F4C2 1F 30                    TFR   U,D                               SAVE 2 MS BYTES IN ACCD
       3041     F4C4 44                       LSRA
       3042     F4C5 56                       RORB                                    DIVIDE ACCD BY 2
       3043     F4C6 44                       LSRA
       3044     F4C7 56                       RORB                                    DO IT AGAIN, EACH SCALE INCREMENT IS 1/4 FULL SCALE
       3045     F4C8 6D E0                    TST   ,S+                               CHECK SIGN OF ORIGINAL DIFFERENCE
       3046     F4CA 2A 04                    BPL   LF4D0                             RETURN IF IT WAS POSITIVE
       3047
       3048                          * NEGATE ACCD
       3049     F4CC 40              NEGACCD NEGA
       3050     F4CD 50                       NEGB
       3051     F4CE 82 00                    SBCA   #$00                                 NEGATE ACCD
       3052     F4D0 39              LF4D0    RTS
       3053     F4D1 1F 10           LF4D1    TFR    X,D                                  TRANSFER UNCHANGED DIFFERENCE TO ACCD
       3054     F4D3 39                       RTS
       3055
       3056                          * MOVE THE DRAW POSITION - ADD THE ORTHOGONAL DIFFERENCES IN ACCD (HORIZONTAL)
       3057                          * AND X (VERTICAL) TO THE CURRENT POSITION; DRAW A LINE AFTER THE MOVE
       3058     F4D4 34 06           LF4D4    PSHS B,A                                SAVE THE HORIZONTAL DIFFERENCE
       3059     F4D6 8D DA                    BSR   LF4B2                             APPLY SCALE FACTOR TO VERTICAL
       3060     F4D8 35 10                    PULS X                                  GET HORIZONTAL DIFFERENCE
       3061     F4DA 34 06                    PSHS B,A                                SAVE THE VERTICAL DIFFERENCE
       3062     F4DC 8D D4                    BSR   LF4B2                             APPLY THE SCALE FACTOR TO HORIZONTAL
       3063     F4DE 35 10                    PULS X                                  GET THE VERTICAL DIFFERENCE
       3064     F4E0 10 9E E8                 LDY   ANGLE                             GET DRAW ANGLE AND SCALE
       3065     F4E3 34 20                    PSHS Y                                  SAVE THEM ON THE STACK
       3066     F4E5 6D E4           LF4E5    TST   ,S                                CHECK DRAW ANGLE
       3067     F4E7 27 08                    BEQ   LF4F1                             BRANCH IF NO ANGLE
       3068     F4E9 1E 10                    EXG   X,D                               SWAP HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL DIFFERENCES
       3069     F4EB 8D DF                    BSR   NEGACCD                           NEGATE ACCD
       3070     F4ED 6A E4                    DEC   ,S                                DECR ANGLE
       3071     F4EF 20 F4                    BRA   LF4E5                             CHECK ANGLE AGAIN
       3072     F4F1 35 20           LF4F1    PULS Y                                  PULL ANGLE AND SCALE OFF OF THE STACK




                                                                                   B32
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                                              APPENDIX B                                                                ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                  DISASSEMBLY OF SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 1.1                                    REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




       3073     F4F3 CE 00 00                 LDU   #0                                DEFAULT HORIZONTAL END POSITION TO 0
       3074     F4F6 D3 C7                    ADDD HORDEF                             ADD DIFFERENCE TO HORIZONTAL START
       3075     F4F8 2B 02                    BMI   LF4FC                             GO FORCE HORIZONTAL COORD TO 0 IF RESULT IS NEGATIVE
       3076     F4FA 1F 03                    TFR   D,U                               SAVE HORIZONTAL END POSITION IN U
       3077     F4FC 1F 10           LF4FC    TFR   X,D                               PUT DIFFERENCE IN ACCD
       3078     F4FE 8E 00 00                 LDX   #0                                DEFAULT THE VERTICAL END POSITION TO 0
       3079     F501 D3 C9                    ADDD VERDEF                             ADD THE DIFFERENCE TO VERTICAL START
       3080     F503 2B 02                    BMI   LF507                             VERTICAL COORD = 0 IF RESULT IS NEGATIVE
       3081     F505 1F 01                    TFR   D,X                               SAVE VERTICAL POSITION IN X
       3082                          * MOVE THE DRAW POSITION; ENTER WITH ABSOLUTE HORIZONTAL POSITION
       3083                          * IN U REGISTER AND ABSOULTE VERTICAL POSITION IN X REGISTER.
       3084     F507 11 83 02 80     LF507    CMPU #640                               COMPARE TO MAX HORIZONTAL COORDINATE
       3085     F50B 25 03                    BCS   LF510                             BRANCH IF WITHIN RANGE
       3086     F50D CE 02 7F                 LDU   #640-1                            FORCE MAXIMUM VALUE IF NOT
       3087     F510 96 E6           LF510    LDA   HRMODE                            GET HI-RES GRAPHICS MODE
       3088     F512 81 02                    CMPA #$02                               SEE WHICH ONE
       3089     F514 2E 09                    BGT   LF51F                             BRANCH IF MODE 3 OR 4
       3090     F516 11 83 01 40              CMPU #320                               MAX HORIZONTAL COORD FOR 320x192 MODES (1 AND 2)
       3091     F51A 25 03                    BCS   LF51F                             BRANCH IF WITHIN LIMITS
       3092     F51C CE 01 3F                 LDU   #320-1                            FORCE TO MAXIMUM IF NOT
       3093     F51F 8C 00 C0        LF51F    CMPX #192                               IS VERTICAL COORD WITHIN RANGE?
       3094     F522 25 03                    BCS   LF527                             BRANCH IF IT IS
       3095     F524 8E 00 BF                 LDX   #192-1                            FORCE TO MAXIMUM IF NOT
       3096     F527 DC C7           LF527    LDD   HORDEF                            GET LAST HORIZONTAL POSITION
       3097     F529 DD BD                    STD   HORBEG                            MAKE IT THE HORIZONTAL START
       3098     F52B DC C9                    LDD   VERDEF                            GET LAST VERTICAL POSITION
       3099     F52D DD BF                    STD   VERBEG                            MAKE IT THE VERTICAL START
       3100     F52F 9F C5                    STX   VEREND                            SAVE VERTICAL END COORD
       3101     F531 DF C3                    STU   HOREND                            SAVE HORIZONTAL END COORDINATE
       3102     F533 0D D5                    TST   VD5                               CHECK UPDATE FLAG
       3103     F535 26 04                    BNE   LF53B                             BRANCH IF NO UPDATE
       3104     F537 9F C9                    STX   VERDEF                            UPDATE VERTICAL POSITION OF DRAW POINTER
       3105     F539 DF C7                    STU   HORDEF                            DO THE SAME WITH THE HORIZONTAL DRAW POINTER
       3106     F53B BD EA 0D        LF53B    JSR   LEA0D                             NORMALIZE COORDS IN HOREND,VEREND AND HORBEG,VERBEG
       3107     F53E 0D D6                    TST   VD6                               CHECK DRAW FLAG
       3108     F540 26 03                    BNE   LF545                             BRANCH IF NO DRAW
       3109     F542 BD E9 4E                 JSR   LE94E                             DRAWLINE FROM (HORBEG,VERBEG) TO (HOREND,VEREND)
       3110     F545 0F D5           LF545    CLR   VD5                               RESET UPDATE FLAG
       3111     F547 0F D6                    CLR   VD6                               RESET DRAW FLAG
       3112     F549 7E F3 CF                 JMP   LF3CF                             GO GET ANOTHER COMMAND
       3113
       3114                          * SET THE DRAW POSITION
       3115     F54C BD F5 91        LF54C    JSR   LF591                             GET A CHAR FROM COMMAND LINE
       3116     F54F 34 02                    PSHS A                                  SAVE IT
       3117     F551 BD F5 78                 JSR   LF578                             EVALUATE THE HORIZONTAL DIFFERENCE
       3118     F554 34 06                    PSHS B,A                                SAVE IT ON THE STACK
       3119     F556 BD F5 91                 JSR   LF591                             GET A CHAR FROM COMMAND LINE
       3120     F559 81 2C                    CMPA #','                               CHECK FOR COMMA
       3121     F55B 10 26 BE EB              LBNE ILLFUNC                            ILLEGAL FUCNTION CALL ERROR IF NO COMMA
       3122     F55F BD F5 75                 JSR   LF575                             EVALUATE THE VERTICAL DIFFERENCE
       3123     F562 1F 01                    TFR   D,X                               SAVE VERTICAL DIFFERENCE IN X
       3124     F564 35 40                    PULS U                                  GET HORIZONTAL DIFFERENCE IN U
       3125     F566 35 02                    PULS A                                  GET FIRST COMMAND CHARACTER
       3126     F568 81 2B                    CMPA #'+'                               CHECK FOR PLUS
       3127     F56A 27 04                    BEQ   LF570                             TREAT VALUES IN X AND U AS DIFFERENCES AND MOVE POINTER
       3128     F56C 81 2D                    CMPA #'-'                               CHECK FOR MINUS
       3129     F56E 26 97                    BNE   LF507                             IF NOT '+' OR '-', MOVE THE POINTER TO THE COORDINATES IN U AND ACCD
       3130     F570 1F 30           LF570    TFR   U,D                               PUT HORIZONTAL DIFFERENCE IN ACCD; X CONTAINS THE VERTICAL DIFFERENCE
       3131     F572 7E F4 D4                 JMP   LF4D4                             GOMOVE THE DRAW POSITION
       3132     F575 BD F5 91        LF575    JSR   LF591                             GET A CHAR FROM COMMAND LINE
       3133     F578 81 2B           LF578    CMPA #'+'                               CHECK FOR LEADING + (RELATIVE MOTION)
       3134     F57A 27 07                    BEQ   LF583                             BRANCH IF RELATIVE
       3135     F57C 81 2D                    CMPA #'-'                               DO THE SAME FOR THE MINUS SIGN
       3136     F57E 27 04                    BEQ   LF584                             BRANCH IF RELATIVE
       3137     F580 BD F5 F2                 JSR   LF5F2                             MOVE COMMAND STRING BACK ONE IF NOT RELATIVE MOTION
       3138     F583 4F              LF583    CLRA                                    IF ACCA=0, THEN '+'; IF ACCA <> 0, THEN '-'
       3139     F584 34 02           LF584    PSHS A                                  SAVE ADD/SUB FLAG; 0=ADD, <> 0 = SUBTRACT
       3140     F586 BD F3 BD                 JSR   LF3BD                             EVALUATE DECIMAL NUMBER IN COMMAND STRING - RETURN VALUE IN ACCD
       3141     F589 6D E0                    TST   ,S+                               CHECK THE ADD/SUBTRACT FLAG AND CLEAN UP THE STACK
       3142     F58B 27 03                    BEQ   LF590                             BRANCH IF ADD
       3143                          * THIS IS A BUG; SHOULD BE JSR NEGACCD INSTEAD OF THE NEXT TWO INSTRUCTIONS
       3144     F58D 50                       NEGB
       3145     F58E 82 00                    SBCA #$00
       3146     F590 39              LF590    RTS
       3147
       3148                          * GET NEXT COMMAND - RETURN VALUE IN ACCA
       3149     F591 34 10           LF591    PSHS X                                      SAVE X REGISTER
       3150     F593 0D D8           LF593    TST   VD8                                   CHECK COMMAND COUNTER
       3151     F595 10 27 BE B1              LBEQ ILLFUNC                                ILLEGAL FUNCTION CALL ERROR IF NO COMMAND DATA LEFT
       3152     F599 9E D9                    LDX   VD9                                   GET COMMAND ADDRESS
       3153     F59B A6 80                    LDA   ,X+                                   GET COMMAND
       3154     F59D 9F D9                    STX   VD9                                   SAVE NEW COMMAND ADDRESS
       3155     F59F 0A D8                    DEC   VD8                                   DECREMENT COMMAND COUNTER
       3156     F5A1 81 20                    CMPA #SPACE                                 CHECK FOR BLANK
       3157     F5A3 27 EE                    BEQ   LF593                                 IGNORE BLANKS
       3158     F5A5 35 90                    PULS X,PC                                   RESTORE X REGISTER AND RETURN
       3159
       3160     F5A7 81 3D           LF5A7   CMPA   #'='                                  CHECK FOR A VARIABLE EQUATE
       3161     F5A9 26 0B                   BNE    LF5B6                                 BRANCH IF NOT VARIABLE EQUATE
       3162     F5AB 34 60                   PSHS   U,Y                                   SAVE REGISTERS
       3163     F5AD 8D 62                   BSR    LF611                                 INTERPRET THE VARIABLE IN THE COMMAND LINE
       3164     F5AF BD B3 E9                JSR    LB3E9                                 CONVERT VARIABLE INTO A POSITIVE INTEGER IN ACCD
       3165     F5B2 DD D3                   STD    VD3                                   SAVE THE SUBCOMMAND VALUE
       3166     F5B4 35 E0                   PULS   Y,U,PC                                RESTORE REGISTERS AND RETURN
       3167     F5B6 BD F6 08        LF5B6   JSR    LF608                                 CLEAR CARRY IF NUMERIC
       3168     F5B9 10 25 BE 8D             LBCS   ILLFUNC                               ILLEGAL FUNCTION CALL IF NOT NUMERIC




                                                                                   B33
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                                               APPENDIX B                                                               ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                   DISASSEMBLY OF SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 1.1                                   REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




       3169     F5BD 0F D3                    CLR   VD3                               *
       3170     F5BF 0F D4                    CLR   VD4                               * INITIALIZE THE SUBCOMMAND VALUE TO ZERO
       3171                          * STRIP A DECIMAL ASCII VALUE FROM THE COMMAND STRING AND RETURN THE BINARY VALUE IN VD3
       3172     F5C1 80 30           LF5C1    SUBA #'0'                               MASK OFF ASCII
       3173     F5C3 97 D7                    STA   VD7                               SAVE TEMPORARILY
       3174     F5C5 DC D3                    LDD   VD3                               GET THE CURRENT SUBCOMMAND VALUE
       3175     F5C7 8D 34                    BSR   LF5FD                             MULTIPLY ACCD BY 10
       3176     F5C9 DB D7                    ADDB VD7                                ADD THE CURRENT DIGIT
       3177     F5CB 89 00                    ADCA #$00                               PROPAGATE THE CARRY
       3178     F5CD DD D3                    STD   VD3                               SAVE THE NEW SUBCOMMAND VALUE
       3179     F5CF 96 E6                    LDA   HRMODE                            GET THE HI-RES GRAPHICS MODE
       3180     F5D1 81 02                    CMPA #$02                               IS IT A 640 OR 320 BYTES/PIXEL ROW MODE?
       3181     F5D3 2E 05                    BGT   LF5DA                             BRANCH IF 640 PIXELS/HORIZONTAL ROW MODE
       3182     F5D5 CC 01 3F                 LDD   #320-1                            MAXIMUM HORIZONTAL PIXELS IN THE 320 PIXEL MODE
       3183     F5D8 20 03                    BRA   LF5DD
       3184     F5DA CC 02 7F        LF5DA    LDD   #640-1                            MAXIMUM HORIZONTAL PIXELS IN THE 640 PIXEL MODE
       3185     F5DD 10 93 D3        LF5DD    CMPD VD3                                COMPARE THE SUBCOMMAND TO THE MAXIMUM PERMISSABLE
       3186     F5E0 10 2D BE 66              LBLT ILLFUNC                            ILLEGAL FUNCTION CALL IF SUBCOMMAND TOO BIG
       3187     F5E4 DC D3                    LDD   VD3                               THIS INSTRUCTION IS USELESS
       3188     F5E6 0D D8                    TST   VD8                               CHECK THE COMMAND COUNTER
       3189     F5E8 27 10                    BEQ   LF5FA                             BRANCH IF NO COMMANDS LEFT
       3190     F5EA BD F5 91                 JSR   LF591                             GET ANOTHER COMMAND
       3191     F5ED BD F6 08                 JSR   LF608                             CLEAR CARRY IF NUMERIC
       3192     F5F0 24 CF                    BCC   LF5C1                             BRANCH IF MORE NUMERIC DATA TO CONVERT
       3193     F5F2 0C D8           LF5F2    INC   VD8                               ADD ONE TO THE COMMAND COUNTER
       3194     F5F4 9E D9                    LDX   VD9                               *
       3195     F5F6 30 1F                    LEAX $-01,X                             *
       3196     F5F8 9F D9                    STX   VD9                               * MOVE THE COMMAND STRING BACK ONE
       3197     F5FA DC D3           LF5FA    LDD   VD3                               LOAD ACCD WITH THE VALUE OF THE SUBCOMMAND
       3198     F5FC 39                       RTS
       3199
       3200                          * MULTIPLY ACCD BY TEN
       3201     F5FD 58              LF5FD    ALSB
       3202     F5FE 49                       ROLA                                         MULTIPLY ACCD BY 2
       3203     F5FF 34 06                    PSHS B,A                                     SAVE ACCD TIME 2
       3204     F601 58                       ALSB
       3205     F602 49                       ROLA
       3206     F603 58                       ALSB
       3207     F604 49                       ROLA                                         NOW ACCD = ACCD * 8
       3208     F605 E3 E1                    ADDD ,S++                                    ADD ACCD*2; THE RESULT IS NOW ACCD*10
       3209     F607 39                       RTS
       3210
       3211                          * CLEAR THE CARRY FLAG IF ACCA CONTAINS A NUMERIC ASCII VALUE ($30-$39)
       3212     F608 81 30           LF608    CMPA #'0'
       3213     F60A 25 04                    BCS   LF610                             RETURN IF LESS THAN ASCII ZERO
       3214     F60C 80 3A                    SUBA #'9'+1
       3215     F60E 80 C6                    SUBA #-('9'+1)                          SET CARRY IF NOT 0-9
       3216     F610 39              LF610    RTS
       3217                          * INTERPRET THE CURRENT COMMAND STRING AS IF IT WERE A BASIC VARIABLE
       3218     F611 9E D9           LF611    LDX   VD9                               GET THE COMMAND POINTER
       3219     F613 34 10                    PSHS X                                  SAVE IT
       3220     F615 BD F5 91                 JSR   LF591                             GET A COMMAND STRING CHARACTER
       3221     F618 BD B3 A2                 JSR   LB3A2                             SET CARRY IF NOT UPPER CASE ALPHA
       3222     F61B 10 25 BE 2B              LBCS ILLFUNC                            ILLEGAL FUNCTION CALL ERROR IF NOT ALPHA - ILLEGAL VARIABLE NAME
       3223     F61F BD F5 91        LF61F    JSR   LF591                             GET COMMAND STRING CHARACTER
       3224     F622 81 3B                    CMPA #';'                               CHECK FOR A SEMICOLON (SUBCOMMAND SEPARATOR)
       3225     F624 26 F9                    BNE   LF61F                             LOOP UNTIL SEMICOLON FOUND
       3226     F626 35 10                    PULS X                                  GET THE START OF THE VARIABLE NAME
       3227     F628 DE A6                    LDU   CHARAD                            GET THE CURRENT ADDRESS OF THE VARIABLE NAME
       3228     F62A 34 40                    PSHS U                                  SAVE IT
       3229     F62C 9F A6                    STX   CHARAD                            PUT THE COMMAND POINTER IN PLACE OF BASIC'S INPUT POINTER
       3230     F62E BD B2 84                 JSR   LB284                             EVALUATE AN ALPHA EXPRESSION
       3231     F631 35 10                    PULS X                                  GET BASIC'S POINTER BACK
       3232     F633 9F A6                    STX   CHARAD                            RESTORE BASIC'S INPUT POINTER
       3233     F635 39                       RTS
       3234
       3235                          * WIDTH
       3236     F636 0F E6           WIDTH   CLR     HRMODE                                TURN OFF HI-RES GRAPHICS MODE
       3237     F638 10 21 09 C4             LBRN    RAMLINK                               RAM HOOK
       3238     F63C 81 00                   CMPA    #$00                                  TEST FOR END OF LINE - NO ARGUMENT GIVEN
       3239     F63E 27 0F                   BEQ     LF64F                                 'FC' ERROR IF NO ARGUMENT
       3240     F640 BD B7 0B                JSR     EVALEXPB                              EVALUATE EXPRESSION, RETURN VALUE IN ACCB
       3241     F643 C1 20                   CMPB    #32                                   32 COLUMNS
       3242     F645 27 0B                   BEQ     COL32
       3243     F647 C1 28                   CMPB    #40                                   40 COLUMNS
       3244     F649 27 11                   BEQ     COL40
       3245     F64B C1 50                   CMPB    #80                                   80 COLUMNS
       3246     F64D 27 2A                   BEQ     COL80
       3247     F64F 7E B4 4A        LF64F   JMP     ILLFUNC                               ILLEGAL FUNCTION CALL ERROR
       3248
       3249                          * 32 COLUMNS
       3250     F652 4F              COL32    CLRA                                         32 COLUMN MODE FLAG
       3251     F653 97 E7                    STA    HRWIDTH                               SAVE THE HI-RES TEXT MODE
       3252     F655 BD A9 28                 JSR    LA928                                 CLEAR THE 32 COLUMN SCREEN
       3253     F658 17 E9 BE                 LBSR   SETTEXT                               SETUP THE VIDEO MODE REGISTERS
       3254     F65B 39                       RTS
       3255
       3256                          * 40 COLUMNS
       3257     F65C 86 01           COL40    LDA    #$01                                  40 COLUMN MODE FLAG
       3258     F65E 97 E7                    STA    HRWIDTH                               SAVE THE HI-RES TEXT MODE
       3259     F660 17 01 0F                 LBSR   LF772                                 PUT THE HI-RES TEXT SCREEN INTO THE LOGICAL ADDRESS SPACE
       3260     F663 86 28                    LDA    #40                                   40 COLUMNS
       3261     F665 C6 18                    LDB    #ROWMAX                               MAXIMUM NUMBER OF ROWS
       3262     F667 FD FE 04                 STD    H.COLUMN                              SAVE THE NUMBER OF COLUMNS AND ROWS
       3263     F66A CC 27 80                 LDD    #HRSCREEN+40*ROWMAX*2                 END OF THE HI-RES TEXT SCREEN
       3264




                                                                                    B34
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                                                 APPENDIX B                                                               ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                     DISASSEMBLY OF SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 1.1                                   REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




       3265     F66D FD FE 06          LF66D   STD     H.DISPEN                              SAVE THE END OF THE HI-RES TEXT SCREEN
       3266     F670 8D 1A                     BSR     LF68C                                 RESET HI-RES TEXT SCREEN
       3267     F672 17 01 03                  LBSR    LF778                                 PUT BLOCK 7.1 INTO LOGICAL BLOCK 1
       3268     F675 17 E9 A1                  LBSR    SETTEXT                               SETUP THE VIDEO MODE REGISTERS
       3269     F678 39                        RTS
       3270
       3271                            * 80 COLUMNS
       3272     F679 86 02             COL80    LDA    #$02                                  80 COLUMN MODE FLAG
       3273     F67B 97 E7                      STA    HRWIDTH                               SAVE THE HI-RES TEXT MODE
       3274     F67D 17 00 F2                   LBSR   LF772                                 PUT THE HI-RES TEXT SCREEN INTO THE LOGICAL ADDRESS SPACE
       3275     F680 86 50                      LDA    #80                                   80 COLUMNS
       3276     F682 C6 18                      LDB    #ROWMAX                               MAXIMUM NUMBER OF ROWS
       3277     F684 FD FE 04                   STD    H.COLUMN                              SAVE THE NUMBER OF COLUMNS AND ROWS
       3278     F687 CC 2F 00                   LDD    #HRSCREEN+80*ROWMAX*2                 END OF THE HI-RES TEXT SCREEN
       3279     F68A 20 E1                      BRA    LF66D
       3280
       3281     F68C 8E 20 00          LF68C   LDX     #HRESSCRN                             POINT X TO THE TOP OF THE HI-RES TEXT SCREEN
       3282     F68F 10 21 09 6D               LBRN    RAMLINK                               RAM HOOK
       3283     F693 BF FE 00                  STX     H.CRSLOC                              SAVE THE START OF THE HI-RES TEXT SCREEN
       3284     F696 86 20                     LDA     #SPACE                                INITIALIZE CHARACTERS TO SPACES
       3285     F698 F6 FE 08                  LDB     H.CRSATT                              GET THE CHARACTER ATTRIBUTES
       3286     F69B ED 81             LF69B   STD     ,X++                                  SAVE THE CHARACTER AND ATTRIBUTES IN HI-RES TEXT SCREEN
       3287     F69D BC FE 06                  CMPX    H.DISPEN                              COMPARE TO THE END OF HI-RES TEXT SCREEN
       3288     F6A0 25 F9                     BCS     LF69B                                 LOOP UNTIL ALL MEMORY INITIALIZED
       3289     F6A2 8E 20 00                  LDX     #HRESSCRN                             RESET X TO THE TOP OF THE SCREEN
       3290     F6A5 4F                        CLRA
       3291     F6A6 B7 FE 02                  STA     H.CURSX                               SET THE CURSOR X COORDINATE (COLUMN) TO ZERO
       3292     F6A9 B7 FE 03                  STA     H.CURSY                               SET THE CURSOR Y COORDIANTE (ROW) TO ZERO
       3293     F6AC 39                        RTS
       3294
       3295                            * CLS PATCH ENTERED FROM $8C4C
       3296     F6AD 35 01             ALINK23 PULS CC                                       RESTORE THE ZERO FLAG
       3297     F6AF 10 21 09 4D                LBRN RAMLINK                                 RAM HOOK
       3298     F6B3 27 2B                      BEQ   LF6E0                                  CLEAR THE SCREEN CURSOR ATTRIBUTES IF NO ARGUMENT
       3299     F6B5 BD B7 0B                   JSR   EVALEXPB                               EVALUATE EXPRESSION, RETURN VALUE IN ACCB
       3300     F6B8 5D                         TSTB                                         TEST ARGUMENT
       3301     F6B9 27 25                      BEQ   LF6E0                                  BRANCH IF CLS 0
       3302     F6BB C1 08                      CMPB #$08                                    CHECK FOR CLS 8
       3303     F6BD 22 28                      BHI   LF6E7                                  BRANCH IF > CLS 8
       3304     F6BF 5A                         DECB                                         CHANGE 1-8 TO 0-7
       3305     F6C0 31 8D EF B4                LEAY IM.PALET,PC                             POINT TO THE PALETTE REGISTER IMAGES
       3306     F6C4 A6 A5                      LDA   B,Y                                    GET THE COLOR IN THE PALETTE REGISTER
       3307     F6C6 B7 FF 9A                   STA   V.BORDER                               AND SAVE IT AS THE NEW BORDER COLOR
       3308     F6C9 17 00 9A                   LBSR LF766                                   SET THE BORDER COLOR IN THE 40 & 80 COLUMN VIDEO MODE IMAGES
       3309     F6CC F7 FE 08                   STB   H.CRSATT                               SAVE THE ADJUSTED CLS ARGUMENT AS THE NEW ATTRIBUTE BYTE
       3310     F6CF 86 20                      LDA   #SPACE
       3311     F6D1 17 00 9E                   LBSR LF772                                   PUT THE HI-RES TEXT SCREEN INTO LOGICAL BLOCK 1
       3312     F6D4 8E 20 00                   LDX   #HRESSCRN                              POINT X TO THE TOP OF THE HI-RES TEXT SCREEN
       3313     F6D7 BF FE 00                   STX   H.CRSLOC                               PUT THE CURSOR AT THE TOP OF THE SCREEN
       3314     F6DA 8D BF                      BSR   LF69B                                  CLEAR THE SCREEN
       3315     F6DC 17 00 99          LF6DC    LBSR LF778                                   REMOVE THE HI-RES TEXT SCREEN FROM THE LOGICAL ADDRESS SPACE
       3316     F6DF 39                         RTS
       3317     F6E0 17 00 8F          LF6E0    LBSR LF772                                   PUT THE HI-RES TEXT SCREEN INTO LOGICAL BLOCK 1
       3318     F6E3 8D A7                      BSR   LF68C                                  CLEAR THE HI-RES TEXT SCREEN
       3319     F6E5 20 F5                      BRA   LF6DC                                  PUT BLOCK 7.1 BACK INTO LOGICAL BLOCK 1
       3320     F6E7 7F FE 08          LF6E7    CLR   H.CRSATT                               RESET THE ATTRIBUTE BYTE TO ZERO
       3321     F6EA B6 E6 78                   LDA   IM.PALET                               GET THE COLOR IN PALETTE REGISTER 0
       3322     F6ED B7 FF 9A                   STA   V.BORDER                               AND SAVE IT AS THE NEW BORDER COLOR
       3323     F6F0 8D 74                      BSR   LF766                                  ALSO SAVE IT IN THE 40 AND 80 COLUMN VIDEO REGISTER IMAGES
       3324     F6F2 C1 64                      CMPB #100                                    CHECK FOR CLS 100
       3325     F6F4 27 3A                      BEQ   LF730                                  IF CLS 100, THEN PRINT THE AUTHORS' NAMES - THIS WILL ONLY BE
       3326                                                                                  DONE THE FIRST TIME CLS 100 IS EXECUTED, THIS CODE WILL BE
       3327                                                                                  OVERWRITTEN BY NOPs WHEN THE AUTHORS' NAMES ARE DISPLAYED.
       3328     F6F6 8D 7A                     BSR     LF772                                 PUT THE HI-RES TEXT SCREEN INTO LOGICAL BLOCK 1
       3329     F6F8 8D 92                     BSR     LF68C                                 CLEAR THE HI-RES TEXT SCREEN
       3330     F6FA 8D 7C                     BSR     LF778                                 PUT BLOCK 7.1 BACK INTO LOGICAL BLOCK 1
       3331     F6FC 8E F7 01                  LDX     #MICROMS-1                            POINT TO MICROWARE'S COMMERCIAL MESSAGE
       3332     F6FF 7E B9 9C                  JMP     STRINOUT                              COPY A STRING TO CONSOLE OUT ($B99C)
       3333
       3334                            * MICROWARE COMMERCIAL
       3335     F702 4D 69 63 72 6F 77 MICROMS FCC    'T.Harris & T.Earles'
       3336     F708 61 72 65 20 53 79
       3337     F70E 73 74 65 6D 73 20
       3338     F714 43 6F 72 70 2E
       3339     F719 0D 00             LF719    FCB   $0D,$00
       3340
       3341                            * NAMES OF THE AUTHORS
       3342                            * THE INITIALIZATION CODE WILL COPY THE AUTHOR'S NAMES INTO THIS SPOT
       3343     F71B 00 00 00 00 00 00 AUTHORMS FCB   $00,$00,$00,$00,$00,$00
       3344     F721 00 00 00 00 00 00          FCB   $00,$00,$00,$00,$00,$00
       3345     F727 00 00 00 00 00 00          FCB   $00,$00,$00,$00,$00,$00
       3346     F72D 00 00 00                   FCB   $00,$00,$00
       3347
       3348     F730 8D 40             LF730    BSR   LF772                             PUT THE HI-RES TEXT SCREEN INTO LOGICAL BLOCK 1
       3349     F732 17 FF 57                   LBSR LF68C                              CLEAR THE HI-RES TEXT SCREEN
       3350     F735 8D 41                      BSR   LF778                             PUT BLOCK 7.1 BACK INTO LOGICAL BLOCK 1
       3351     F737 8E F7 1A                   LDX   #AUTHORMS-1                       POINT TO THE AUTHOR MESSAGE
       3352     F73A BD B9 9C                   JSR   STRINOUT                          COPY A STRING TO CONSOLE OUT
       3353     F73D 34 10                      PSHS X
       3354     F73F 30 8D FF B1                LEAX LF6F4,PC                           POINT TO THE INSTRUCTION WHICH BRANCHES TO THIS ROUTINE
       3355     F743 86 12                      LDA   #$12                              OP CODE OF A NOP
       3356     F745 A7 80                      STA   ,X+                               REPLACE THE BRANCH TO THIS ROUTINE WITH 2 NOPs MAKING IT SO
       3357     F747 A7 84                      STA   ,X                                THAT THIS ROUTINE MAY ONLY BE ENTERED ONE TIME
       3358     F749 30 8D FF CE                LEAX AUTHORMS,PC                        POINT TO THE AUTHORS CODED NAMES
       3359                            * REPLACE THE AUTHORS' NAMES AND THE CODE THAT DISPLAYS THEM WITH NOPs
       3360     F74D A7 80             LF74D    STA   ,X+                               SAVE A NOP




                                                                                      B35
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                                              APPENDIX B                                                               ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                  DISASSEMBLY OF SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 1.1                                   REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




       3361     F74F 8C F7 4D                CMPX   #LF74D                                CHECK FOR END OF THE DISPLAY NAME ROUTINE
       3362     F752 25 F9                   BCS    LF74D                                 LOOP UNTIL DONE
       3363     F754 35 10                   PULS   X                                     RESTORE X; THIS AND THE RTS FOLLOWING SHOULD BE PULS X,PC
       3364     F756 39                      RTS
       3365
       3366                          * GET AN INPUT LINE FOR BASIC PATCH ENTERED FROM $A38D
       3367     F757 0D E7           ALINK27 TST    HRWIDTH                           CHECK FOR HI-RES TEXT MODE
       3368     F759 26 06                    BNE   LF761                             BRANCH IF IN A HI-RES TEXT MODE
       3369     F75B BD A9 28                 JSR   LA928                             CLEAR THE 32 COLUMN SCREEN
       3370     F75E 7E A3 90        LF75E    JMP   LA390                             RE-ENTER THE MAIN STREAM OF CODE ($A390)
       3371     F761 17 FF 7C        LF761    LBSR LF6E0                              RESET THE HI-RES TEXT SCREEN
       3372     F764 20 F8                    BRA   LF75E
       3373
       3374                          * SAVE THE VALUE IN ACCA AS THE BORDER COLOR IN THE 40 AND 80 COLUMN VIDEO MODE IMAGES
       3375     F766 34 20           LF766    PSHS Y
       3376     F768 31 8D E8 CF              LEAY LE8CF,PC                           POINT TO THE 40 COLUMN MODE REGISTER IMAGE
       3377     F76C A7 23                    STA   $03,Y                             SAVE THE BORDER COLOR IN THE 40 COLUMN VIDEO MODE REGISTER IMAGE
       3378     F76E A7 2C                    STA   $0C,Y                             SAVE THE BORDER COLOR IN THE 80 COLUMN VIDEO MODE REGISTER IMAGE
       3379     F770 35 A0                    PULS Y,PC
       3380
       3381     F772 1A 50           LF772    ORCC #$50                               DISABLE THE INTERRUPTS
       3382     F774 17 E9 3E                 LBSR SELTEXT                            PUT BLOCK 6.6 INTO LOGICAL BLOCK 1
       3383     F777 39                       RTS
       3384     F778 17 E9 1C        LF778    LBSR SETMMU                             COPY THE MMU IMAGES INTO THE MMU REGISTERS
       3385     F77B 1C AF                    ANDCC #$AF                              ENABLE IRQ, FIRQ
       3386     F77D 39                       RTS
       3387                          * PATCH 24 - BLINK THE CURSOR PATCH ENTERED FROM $A0D4
       3388     F77E 8D 07           ALINK24 BSR    LF787                             BLINK THE CURSOR
       3389     F780 BD A1 CB                 JSR   KEYIN                             GET A KEY
       3390     F783 27 F9                    BEQ   ALINK24                           LOOP UNTIL A KEY IS PRESSED
       3391     F785 35 94                    PULS B,X,PC
       3392     F787 0A 94           LF787    DEC   BLKCNT                            DECREMENT THE CURSOR BLINK DELAY
       3393     F789 26 1D                    BNE   LF7A8                             IT'S NOT TIME TO BLINK THE CURSOR
       3394     F78B C6 0B                    LDB   #11                               CURSOR BLINK DELAY CONSTANT
       3395     F78D D7 94                    STB   BLKCNT                            RESET THE CURSOR BLINK DELAY COUNTER
       3396     F78F 8D E1                    BSR   LF772                             PUT THE HI-RES TEXT SCREEN INTO THE LOGICAL ADDRESS SPACE
       3397     F791 BE FE 00                 LDX   H.CRSLOC                          POINT TO THE CURSOR CHARACTER
       3398     F794 A6 01                    LDA   $01,X                             GET THE CURSOR CHARACTER'S ATTRIBUTES
       3399     F796 85 40                    BITA #$40                               IS THE UNDERLINE MODE ACTIVE?
       3400     F798 27 05                    BEQ   LF79F                             BRANCH IF NOT ACTIVE UNDERLINE
       3401     F79A B6 FE 08                 LDA   H.CRSATT                          GET THE CURSOR ATTRIBUTES RAM IMAGE
       3402     F79D 20 05                    BRA   LF7A4                             PUT IT ON THE SCREEN
       3403     F79F B6 FE 08        LF79F    LDA   H.CRSATT                          GET THE CURSOR ATTRIBUTES RAM IMAGE
       3404     F7A2 8A 40                    ORA   #$40                              FORCE THE UNDERLINE ATTRIBUTE
       3405     F7A4 A7 01           LF7A4    STA   $01,X                             SAVE THE NEW CURSOR ATTRIBUTES IN THE HI-RES TEXT SCREEN
       3406     F7A6 8D D0                    BSR   LF778                             RESTORE THE NORMAL BASIC PROGRAM BLOCK TO LOGICAL BLOCK 1
       3407     F7A8 8E 04 5E        LF7A8    LDX   #DEBDEL                           GET THE KEYBOARD DEBOUNCE DELAY
       3408     F7AB 7E A7 D3                 JMP   LA7D3                             GO WAIT A WHILE ($A7D3)
       3409
       3410                          * PATCH 22 - PUT A CHARACTER ON THE SCREEN PATCH ENTERED FROM $BC3D
       3411     F7AE 8D C2           ALINK22 BSR    LF772                             PUT THE HI-RES TEXT SCREEN INTO THE LOGICAL ADDRESS SPACE
       3412     F7B0 10 21 08 4C              LBRN RAMLINK                            RAM HOOK
       3413     F7B4 BE FE 00                 LDX   H.CRSLOC                          POINT TO THE CURSOR CHARACTER
       3414     F7B7 81 08                    CMPA #BS                                BACKSPACE CHARACTER?
       3415     F7B9 26 09                    BNE   LF7C4                             NO
       3416
       3417                          DO A BACKSPACE HERE
       3418     F7BB 8C 20 00                 CMPX #HRESSCRN                              ARE WE AT THE UPPER LEFT-HAND CORNER OF THE SCREEN?
       3419     F7BE 27 1E                    BEQ   LF7DE                                 YES, DO NOT ALLOW A BACKSPACE
       3420     F7C0 8D 20                    BSR   LF7E2                                 DO A BACKSPACE ON THE HI-RES SCREEN
       3421     F7C2 20 1A                    BRA   LF7DE
       3422     F7C4 81 0D           LF7C4    CMPA #CR                                    ENTER KEY?
       3423     F7C6 26 04                    BNE   LF7CC                                 NO
       3424     F7C8 8D 5D                    BSR   LF827                                 DO A CARRIAGE RETURN ON THE HI-RES SCREEN
       3425     F7CA 20 0B                    BRA   LF7D7                                 CHECK TO SEE IF THE SCREEN SHOULD BE SCROLLED
       3426     F7CC 81 20           LF7CC    CMPA #$20                                   CHECK FOR A CONTROL CHARACTER
       3427     F7CE 25 0E                    BCS   LF7DE                                 DO NOTHING IF A CONTROL CHARACTER
       3428     F7D0 F6 FE 08                 LDB   H.CRSATT                              GET THE CURSOR ATTRIBUTES RAM IMAGE
       3429     F7D3 ED 84                    STD   ,X                                    PUT THE NEW CHARACTER AND ATTRIBUTES INTO THE HI-RES TEXT SCREEN
       3430     F7D5 8D 30                    BSR   LF807                                 MOVE THE CURSOR FORWARD ONE CHARACTER
       3431     F7D7 BC FE 06        LF7D7    CMPX H.DISPEN                               CHECK FOR THE END OF THE HI-RES TEXT SCREEN
       3432     F7DA 25 02                    BCS   LF7DE                                 BRANCH IF NOT AT THE END
       3433     F7DC 8D 76                    BSR   LF854                                 SCROLL THE SCREEN UP ONE ROW
       3434     F7DE 8D 98           LF7DE    BSR   LF778                                 RESTORE THE NORMAL BASIC PROGRAM BLOCK TO LOGICAL BLOCK 1
       3435     F7E0 35 96                    PULS A,B,X,PC
       3436
       3437                          DO A HI-RES BACKSPACE HERE
       3438     F7E2 34 06           LF7E2    PSHS B,A
       3439     F7E4 86 20                    LDA   #SPACE                                SPACE CHARACTER
       3440     F7E6 F6 FE 08                 LDB   H.CRSATT                              GET THE ATTRIBUTES RAM IMAGE
       3441     F7E9 ED 84                    STD   ,X                                    SAVE A SPACE ON THE SCREEN AT THE OLD CURSOR POSITION
       3442     F7EB CA 40                    ORB   #$40                                  FORCE THE UNDERLINE ATTRIBUTE
       3443     F7ED ED 1E                    STD   $-02,X                                SAVE AN UNDERLINED SPACE AS THE NEW CURSOR CHARACTER
       3444     F7EF 30 1E                    LEAX $-02,X                                 MOVE THE CURSOR POINTER BACK TWO
       3445     F7F1 BF FE 00                 STX   H.CRSLOC                              AND SAVE IT IN RAM
       3446     F7F4 FC FE 02                 LDD   H.CURSX                               GET THE COLUMN AND ROW POSITION OF THE OLD CURSOR
       3447     F7F7 4A                       DECA                                        BUMP THE COLUMN NUMBER DOWN ONE
       3448     F7F8 2A 08                    BPL   LF802                                 BRANCH IF NO WRAP-AROUND
       3449     F7FA 5A                       DECB                                        BUMP THE ROW COUNTER DOWN ONE
       3450     F7FB F7 FE 03                 STB   H.CURSY                               SAVE THE NEW CURSOR ROW NUMBER
       3451     F7FE B6 FE 04                 LDA   H.COLUMN                              GET THE NUMBER OF CHARACTERS PER ROW
       3452     F801 4A                       DECA                                        MAKE THE HIGHEST ALLOWABLE COLUMN NUMBER (ZERO IS FIRST)
       3453     F802 B7 FE 02        LF802    STA   H.CURSX                               SAVE THE NEW CURSOR COLUMN NUMBER
       3454     F805 35 86                    PULS A,B,PC
       3455     F807 34 06           LF807    PSHS B,A
       3456     F809 86 20                    LDA   #$20                                  GET THE CURSOR CHARACTER




                                                                                   B36
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                                                 APPENDIX B                                                                ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                     DISASSEMBLY OF SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 1.1                                    REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




       3457     F80B F6 FE 08                 LDB   H.CRSATT                                 GET THE CURSOR ATTRIBUTES RAM IMAGE
       3458     F80E CA 40                    ORB   #$40                                     FORCE THE UNDERLINE ATTRIBUTE
       3459     F810 30 02                    LEAX $02,X                                     MOVE THE POINTER UP ONE CHARACTER POSITION
       3460     F812 ED 84                    STD   ,X                                       SAVE THE NEW CHARACTER ATTRIBUTES IN THE HI-RES TEXT SCREEN
       3461     F814 BF FE 00                 STX   H.CRSLOC                                 SAVE THE NEW CURSOR POSITION
       3462     F817 FC FE 02                 LDD   H.CURSX                                  GET THE OLD CURSOR ROW AND COLUMN NUMBERS
       3463     F81A 4C                       INCA                                           BUMP THE COLUMN NUMBER UP ONE
       3464     F81B B1 FE 04                 CMPA H.COLUMN                                  CHECK FOR WRAP-AROUND TO NEXT ROW
       3465     F81E 25 E2                    BCS   LF802                                    BRANCH IF NO WRAP-AROUND
       3466     F820 5C                       INCB                                           BUMP THE ROW NUMBER UP ONE
       3467     F821 F7 FE 03                 STB   H.CURSY                                  SAVE THE NEW ROW NUMBER
       3468     F824 4F                       CLRA                                           SET THE COLUMN NUMBER TO ZERO
       3469     F825 20 DB                    BRA   LF802
       3470                          * DO A HI-RES CARRIAGE RETURN
       3471     F827 34 06           LF827    PSHS B,A
       3472     F829 86 20                    LDA   #SPACE                                   SPACE CHARACTER
       3473     F82B F6 FE 08                 LDB   H.CRSATT                                 GET THE CURSOR ATTRIBUTES RAM IMAGE
       3474     F82E ED 81           LF82E    STD   ,X++                                     SAVE A SPACE CHARACTER AND ADVANCE THE CURSOR POINTER ONE CHARACTER
       3475     F830 34 02                    PSHS A
       3476     F832 B6 FE 02                 LDA   H.CURSX                                  GET THE CURSOR'S COLUMN NUMBER
       3477     F835 4C                       INCA                                           BUMP IT UP ONE
       3478     F836 B7 FE 02                 STA   H.CURSX                                  SAVE THE NEW COLUMN NUMBER
       3479     F839 B1 FE 04                 CMPA H.COLUMN                                  HAS IT WRAPPED AROUND?
       3480     F83C 35 02                    PULS A
       3481     F83E 25 EE                    BCS   LF82E                                    BRANCH IF NO WRAP-AROUND
       3482     F840 BF FE 00                 STX   H.CRSLOC                                 SAVE THE NEW CURSOR POINTER
       3483     F843 7F FE 02                 CLR   H.CURSX                                  SET THE CURSOR COLUMN NUMBER TO ZERO
       3484     F846 7C FE 03                 INC   H.CURSY                                  BUMP THE ROW NUMBER UP ONE
       3485     F849 86 20                    LDA   #$20                                     GET THE CURSOR CHARACTER
       3486     F84B F6 FE 08                 LDB   H.CRSATT                                 ACCB ALREADY CONTAINS THIS VALUE
       3487     F84E CA 40                    ORB   #$40                                     FORCE THE UNDERLINE ATTRIBUTE
       3488     F850 ED 84                    STD   ,X                                       SAVE AN UNDERLINED CHARACTER AS THE NEW CURSOR CHARACTER
       3489     F852 35 86                    PULS A,B,PC
       3490
       3491                          * SCROLL THE SCREEN
       3492     F854 34 06           LF854    PSHS B,A
       3493     F856 8E 20 00                 LDX   #HRESSCRN                                POINT TO THE START OF THE HI-RES TEXT SCREEN
       3494     F859 B6 FE 04                 LDA   H.COLUMN                                 GET THE NUMBER OF CHARACTERS PER ROW
       3495     F85C 81 28                    CMPA #40                                       40 CHARACTERS PER ROW?
       3496     F85E 26 0E                    BNE   LF86E                                    BRANCH IF 80 CHARACTERS PER ROW
       3497
       3498                          * SCROLL A 40 CHARACTER ROW
       3499     F860 EC 88 50        LF860    LDD   2*40,X                                   GET A CHARACTER AND ATTRIBUTE FROM ONE ROW DOWN
       3500     F863 ED 81                    STD   ,X++                                     AND MOVE THEM UP TO THE PRESENT ROW
       3501     F865 8C 27 30                 CMPX #HRESSCRN+(ROWMAX-1)*40*2                 PAST THE END OF THE HI-RES TEXT SCREEN?
       3502     F868 25 F6                    BCS   LF860                                    NO, KEEP MOVING CHARACTERS AND ATTRIBUTES
       3503     F86A 8D 0F           LF86A    BSR   LF87B                                    FILL THE LAST ROW WITH SPACES
       3504     F86C 35 86                    PULS A,B,PC
       3505
       3506                          * SCROLL AN 80 CHARACTER SCREEN
       3507     F86E EC 89 00 A0     LF86E    LDD   80*2,X                                   GET A CHARACTER AND ATTRIBUTES FROM ONE ROW DOWN
       3508     F872 ED 81                    STD   ,X++                                     AND MOVE THEM UP TO THE PRESENT ROW
       3509     F874 8C 2E 60                 CMPX #HRESSCRN+(ROWMAX-1)*80*2                 PAST THE END OF THE HI-RES TEXT SCREEN?
       3510     F877 25 F5                    BCS   LF86E                                    NO, KEEP MOVING CHARACTERS AND ATTRIBUTES
       3511     F879 20 EF                    BRA   LF86A
       3512
       3513                          * FILL THE LAST ROW WITH SPACES
       3514     F87B 7F FE 02        LF87B    CLR   H.CURSX                                  RESET THE COLUMN NUMBER TO ZERO
       3515     F87E 86 17                    LDA   #ROWMAX-1                                GET THE HIGHEST ROW NUMBER (ZERO IS LOWEST)
       3516     F880 B7 FE 03                 STA   H.CURSY                                  AND SAVE IT AS THE CURRENT ROW NUMBER
       3517     F883 86 20                    LDA   #SPACE                                   SPACE CHARACTER
       3518     F885 F6 FE 08                 LDB   H.CRSATT                                 GET THE ATTRIBUTES RAM IMAGE
       3519     F888 34 10                    PSHS X                                         SAVE THE CURRENT CHARACTER POINTER
       3520     F88A ED 81           LF88A    STD   ,X++                                     SAVE A CHARACTER AND ATTRIBUTES TO THE HI-RES TEXT SCREEN
       3521     F88C BC FE 06                 CMPX H.DISPEN                                  CHECK FOR THE END OF THE HI-RES TEXT SCREEN
       3522     F88F 26 F9                    BNE   LF88A                                    BRANCH IF NOT AT THE END OF THE HI-RES TEXT SCREEN
       3523     F891 7F FE 02                 CLR   H.CURSX                                  RESET THE COLUMN NUMBER TO ZERO
       3524     F894 35 10                    PULS X                                         RESTORE THE CHARACTER POINTER
       3525     F896 86 20                    LDA   #$20                                     GET THE CURSOR CHARACTER
       3526     F898 F6 FE 08                 LDB   H.CRSATT                                 GET THE CURSOR ATTRIBUTES RAM IMAGE
       3527     F89B CA 40                    ORB   #$40                                     FORCE THE UNDERLINE ATTRIBUTE
       3528     F89D ED 84                    STD   ,X                                       SAVE THE NEW CURSOR CHARACTER
       3529     F89F BF FE 00                 STX   H.CRSLOC                                 SAVE THE NEW CURSOR POINTER
       3530     F8A2 39                       RTS
       3531
       3532                          * PRINT @ PATCH ENTERED FROM $B902
       3533     F8A3 0D 6F           ALINK26 TST    DEVNUM                                   CHECK THE DEVICE NUMBER
       3534     F8A5 26 04                    BNE   LF8AB                                    BRANCH IF NOT THE SCREEN
       3535     F8A7 0D E7                    TST   HRWIDTH                                  CHECK THE HI-RES TEXT MODE
       3536     F8A9 26 06                    BNE   LF8B1                                    BRANCH IF A HI-RES TEXT MODE IS SET
       3537     F8AB BD A3 5F        LF8AB    JSR   LA35F                                    SET UP THE PRINT PARAMETERS
       3538     F8AE 7E B9 5F                 JMP   LB95F                                    RE-ENTER THE MAIN STREAM OF CODE ($B95F)
       3539     F8B1 17 FE BE        LF8B1    LBSR LF772                                     PUT THE HI-RES TEXT SCREEN INTO THE LOGICAL ADDRESS SPACE
       3540     F8B4 7D FE 02                 TST   H.CURSX                                  CHECK THE CURSOR'S X COORDINATE
       3541     F8B7 34 01                    PSHS CC                                        SAVE THE ZERO FLAG
       3542     F8B9 17 FE BC                 LBSR LF778                                     RESTORE THE NORMAL BASIC PROGRAM BLOCK TO LOGICAL BLOCK 1
       3543     F8BC 35 01                    PULS CC                                        RESTORE THE ZERO FLAG
       3544     F8BE 10 26 C0 96              LBNE LB958                                     BRANCH IF THE CURSOR IS NOT AT THE START OF THE LINE ($B958)
       3545     F8C2 39                       RTS
       3546
       3547                          * PRINT @ PATCH ENTERED FROM $B902
       3548     F8C3 0D E7           ALINK25 TST    HRWIDTH                                  CHECK THE HI-RES TEXT MODE
       3549     F8C5 26 06                    BNE   LF8CD                                    'HP' ERROR IF THE HI-RES TEXT MODE IS NOT SET
       3550     F8C7 BD A5 54                 JSR   LA554                                    MOVE THE CURSOR TO THE PROPER PRINT POSITION
       3551     F8CA 7E B9 05                 JMP   LB905                                    RE-ENTER THE MAIN STREAM OF CODE ($B905)
       3552     F8CD C6 4E           LF8CD    LDB   #39*2                                    'HP' ERROR




                                                                                      B37
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                                             APPENDIX B                                                               ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                 DISASSEMBLY OF SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 1.1                                   REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




       3553     F8CF 7E AC 46                JMP     LAC46                               JUMP TO ERROR HANDLER ($AC46)
       3554
       3555                          * LOCATE
       3556     F8D2 D6 E7           LOCATE   LDB    HRWIDTH                             IS THE HI-RES TEXT MODE ENABLED?
       3557     F8D4 10 21 07 28              LBRN   RAMLINK                             RAM HOOK
       3558     F8D8 27 F3                    BEQ    LF8CD                               'HP' ERROR IF NOT ENABLED
       3559     F8DA 34 04                    PSHS   B                                   SAVE THE HI-RES TEXT MODE
       3560     F8DC BD E7 B2                 JSR    LE7B2                               EVALUATE TWO EXPRESSIONS
       3561     F8DF 96 2C                    LDA    BINVAL+1                            GET THE FIRST OF THE TWO EXPRESSIONS (COLUMN NUMBER)
       3562     F8E1 35 04                    PULS   B                                   RESTORE THE FIRST ARGUMENT
       3563     F8E3 C1 01                    CMPB   #$01                                GET BACK THE HI-RES TEXT MODE
       3564     F8E5 26 04                    BNE    LF8EB                               BRANCH IF NOT 40 COLUMN MODE
       3565     F8E7 81 28                    CMPA   #40                                 40 COLUMNS MAXIMUM IN 40 COLUMN MODE
       3566     F8E9 20 02                    BRA    LF8ED                               DO A RANGE CHECK
       3567     F8EB 81 50           LF8EB    CMPA   #80                                 80 COLUMNS MAXIMUM IN 80 COLUMN MODE
       3568     F8ED 10 24 BB 59     LF8ED    LBCC   ILLFUNC                             ILLEGAL FUNCTION CALL ERROR
       3569     F8F1 D6 C0                    LDB    VERBEG+1                            GET THE SECOND ARGUMENT (ROW NUMBER)
       3570     F8F3 C1 18                    CMPB   #ROWMAX                             RANGE CHECK ON THE ROW NUMBER
       3571     F8F5 24 F6                    BCC    LF8ED                               'FC' ERROR IF ROW NUMBER IS TOO LARGE
       3572     F8F7 34 06                    PSHS   B,A                                 SAVE THE COLUMN AND ROW NUMBERS
       3573     F8F9 17 FE 76                 LBSR   LF772                               PUT THE HI-RES TEXT SCREEN INTO THE LOGICAL ADDRESS SPACE
       3574     F8FC FD FE 02                 STD    H.CURSX                             SAVE THE NEW COLUMN AND ROW NUMBERS AS THOSE OF THE CURSOR
       3575     F8FF BE FE 00                 LDX    H.CRSLOC                            GET THE CURRENT CURSOR POINTER
       3576     F902 B6 FE 08                 LDA    H.CRSATT                            GET THE CURSOR ATTRIBUTES RAM IMAGE
       3577     F905 A7 01                    STA    $01,X                               AND SAVE IT AS THE ATTRIBUTES IN THE OLD CURSOR POSITION
       3578     F907 B6 FE 04                 LDA    H.COLUMN                            GET THE NUMBER OF CHARACTERS/ROW
       3579     F90A 48                       ALSA                                       MULTIPLY BY TWO - TWO BYTES PER CHARACTER (CHAR AND ATTR)
       3580     F90B 3D                       MUL                                        GET THE ROW OFFSET TO THE PROPER CHARACTER
       3581     F90C 8E 20 00                 LDX    #HRESSCRN                           POINT TO THE START OF THE HI-RES TEXT SCREEN
       3582     F90F 30 8B                    LEAX   D,X                                 ADD ROW OFFSET TO THE START OF THE HI-RES TEXT SCREEN
       3583     F911 35 06                    PULS   A,B                                 RESTORE THE NEW CURSOR COLUMN AND ROW NUMBERS
       3584     F913 48                       ALSA                                       MULTIPLY COLUMN NUMBER BY TWO - TWO BYTES PER CHARACTER (CHAR AND ATTR)
       3585     F914 1F 89                    TFR    A,B                                 SAVE COLUMN OFFSET IN ACCB
       3586     F916 3A                       ABX                                        ADD THE COLUMN OFFSET TO THE CURRENT CURSOR POINTER
       3587     F917 B6 FE 08                 LDA    H.CRSATT                            GET THE CURSOR ATTRIBUTES RAM IMAGE
       3588     F91A 8A 40                    ORA    #$40                                FORCE UNDERLINE ATTRIBUTE
       3589     F91C A7 01                    STA    $01,X                               SAVE THE NEW CURSOR ATTRIBUTE IN THE HI-RES TEXT SCREEN
       3590     F91E BF FE 00                 STX    H.CRSLOC                            SAVE THE NEW CURSOR POINTER
       3591     F921 17 FE 54                 LBSR   LF778                               RESTORE THE NORMAL BASIC PROGRAM BLOCK TO LOGICAL BLOCK 1
       3592     F924 39                       RTS
       3593
       3594                          * HSTAT
       3595     F925 0D E7           HSTAT   TST     HRWIDTH                             IS THE HI-RES TEXT MODE ENABLED?
       3596     F927 10 21 06 D5             LBRN    RAMLINK                             RAM HOOK
       3597     F92B 27 A0                   BEQ     LF8CD                               'HP' ERROR IF HI-RES TEXT MODE NOT ENABLED
       3598     F92D 17 FE 42                LBSR    LF772                               PUT THE HI-RES TEXT SCREEN INTO THE LOGICAL ADDRESS SPACE
       3599     F930 BE FE 00                LDX     H.CRSLOC                            GET THE CURRENT CURSOR POINTER
       3600     F933 EC 84                   LDD     ,X                                  GET THE CURSOR CHARACTER ATTRIBUTES
       3601     F935 DD CB                   STD     VCB                                 AND SAVE THEM
       3602     F937 FC FE 02                LDD     H.CURSX                             GET THE CURRENT COLUMN AND ROW NUMBER
       3603     F93A DD CD                   STD     VCD                                 AND SAVE THEM
       3604     F93C 17 FE 39                LBSR    LF778                               RESTORE THE NORMAL BASIC PROGRAM BLOCK TO LOGICAL BLOCK 1
       3605     F93F BD B3 57                JSR     LB357                               EVALUATE A VARIABLE; RETURN X POINTING TO THE VARIABLE DESCRIPTOR
       3606     F942 9F 3B                   STX     VARDES                              SAVE THE VARIABLE DESCRIPTOR
       3607     F944 BD B2 6D                JSR     SYNCOMMA                            SYNTAX CHECK FOR A COMMA
       3608     F947 C6 01                   LDB     #$01
       3609     F949 BD B5 6D                JSR     LB56D                               RESERVE SPACE FOR A ONE CHARACTER STRING IN STRING SPACE
       3610     F94C 96 CB                   LDA     VCB                                 GET THE CURSOR CHARACTER
       3611     F94E BD B5 11                JSR     LB511                               THIS IS REALLY A WASTE - THE JSR LB56D ABOVE SHOULD JUST BE A
       3612                                                                              JSR LB50D AND THE JSR LB511 WOULD NOT BE NECESSARY
       3613     F951 A7 84                   STA     ,X                                  SAVE THE CURSOR CHARACTER IN THE NEWLY RESERVED STRING SPACE
       3614     F953 BD B5 4C                JSR     LB54C                               PUT THE STRING ONTO THE STRING STACK
       3615     F956 9E 3B                   LDX     VARDES                              POINT TO THE STRING'S VARIABLE DESCRIPTOR
       3616     F958 6D 1F                   TST     $-01,X                              CHECK THE SECOND CHARACTER OF THE VARIABLE NAME
       3617     F95A 10 2A B7 F3             LBPL    TMERROR                             TYPE MISMATCH ERROR IF NUMERIC VARIABLE
       3618     F95E 10 9E 52                LDY     FPA0+2                              POINT Y TO THE START OF THE STRING DESCRIPTOR
       3619     F961 C6 05                   LDB     #$05                                VARIABLE DESCRIPTORS ARE 5 BYTES LONG
       3620     F963 A6 A0           LF963   LDA     ,Y+                                 * COPY THE DATA FROM THE STRING DESCRIPTOR
       3621     F965 A7 80                   STA     ,X+                                 * TO THE VARIABLE DESCRIPTOR
       3622     F967 5A                      DECB                                        DECREMENT THE DESCRIPTOR COUNTER
       3623     F968 26 F9                   BNE     LF963                               LOOP UNTIL DONE
       3624     F96A 9E 0B                   LDX     TEMPPT                              * THIS CODE IS DESIGNED TO REMOVE THE ABOVE ALLOCATED STRING FROM
       3625     F96C 30 1B                   LEAX    $-05,X                              * THE STRING STACK - IT MAY CAUSE BUGS BECAUSE IT DOESN'T RESET
       3626     F96E 9F 0B                   STX     TEMPPT                              * LASTPT; LDX LASTPT, JSR LB675 WOULD BE MUCH BETTER
       3627     F970 BD B3 57                JSR     LB357                               EVALUATE A VARIABLE; RETURN X POINTING TO THE VARIABLE DESCRIPTOR
       3628     F973 9F 3B                   STX     VARDES                              SAVE THE VARIABLE DESCRIPTOR
       3629     F975 BD B2 6D                JSR     SYNCOMMA                            SYNTAX CHECK FOR A COMMA
       3630     F978 4F                      CLRA                                        ZERO OUT THE MS BYTE OF ACCD
       3631     F979 D6 CC                   LDB     VCB+1                               GET THE CURSOR ATTRIBUTES
       3632     F97B BD B4 F4                JSR     GIVABF                              CONVERT ACCD TO FLOATING POINT
       3633     F97E 9E 3B                   LDX     VARDES                              POINT X TO THE VARIABLE DESCRIPTOR
       3634     F980 6D 1F                   TST     $-01,X                              CHECK THE SECOND CHARACTER OF THE VARIABLE NAME
       3635     F982 10 2B B7 CB             LBMI    TMERROR                             TYPE MISMATCH ERROR IF STRING VARIABLE
       3636     F986 BD BC 35                JSR     LBC35                               PACK FPA0 AND STORE IT IN THE DESCRIPTOR POINTED TO BY X
       3637     F989 BD B3 57                JSR     LB357                               EVALUATE A VARIABLE; RETURN X POINTING TO THE VARIABLE DESCRIPTOR
       3638     F98C 9F 3B                   STX     VARDES                              SAVE THE VARIABLE DESCRIPTOR
       3639     F98E BD B2 6D                JSR     SYNCOMMA                            SYNTAX CHECK FOR A COMMA
       3640     F991 4F                      CLRA                                        ZERO OUT THE MS BYTE OF ACCD
       3641     F992 D6 CD                   LDB     VCD                                 GET THE X COORDINATE OF THE CURSOR POSITION
       3642     F994 BD B4 F4                JSR     GIVABF                              CONVERT ACCD TO FLOATING POINT
       3643     F997 9E 3B                   LDX     VARDES                              POINT X TO THE VARIABLE DESCRIPTOR
       3644     F999 6D 1F                   TST     $-01,X                              CHECK THE SECOND CHARACTER OF THE VARIABLE NAME
       3645     F99B 10 2B B7 B2             LBMI    TMERROR                             TYPE MISMATCH ERROR IF STRING VARIABLE
       3646     F99F BD BC 35                JSR     LBC35                               PACK FPA0 AND STORE IT IN THE DESCRIPTOR POINTED TO BY X
       3647     F9A2 BD B3 57                JSR     LB357                               EVALUATE A VARIABLE; RETURN X POINTING TO THE VARIABLE DESCRIPTOR
       3648     F9A5 9F 3B                   STX     VARDES                              SAVE THE VARIABLE DESCRIPTOR




                                                                                  B38
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                                            APPENDIX B                                                               ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                                DISASSEMBLY OF SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 1.1                                   REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




       3649     F9A7 4F                       CLRA                                      ZERO OUT THE MS BYTE OF ACCD
       3650     F9A8 D6 CE                    LDB    VCD+1                              GET THE Y COORDINATE OF THE CURSOR POSITION
       3651     F9AA BD B4 F4                 JSR    GIVABF                             CONVERT ACCD TO FLOATING POINT
       3652     F9AD 9E 3B                    LDX    VARDES                             POINT X TO THE VARIABLE DESCRIPTOR
       3653     F9AF 6D 1F                    TST    $-01,X                             CHECK THE SECOND CHARACTER OF THE VARIABLE NAME
       3654     F9B1 10 2B B7 9C              LBMI   TMERROR                            TYPE MISMATCH ERROR IF STRING VARIABLE
       3655     F9B5 BD BC 35                 JSR    LBC35                              PACK FPA0 AND STORE IT IN THE DESCRIPTOR POINTED TO BY X
       3656     F9B8 39                       RTS
       3657
       3658                          * ATTR
       3659     F9B9 BD B7 0B        ATTR     JSR    EVALEXPB                           EVALUATE EXPRESSION, RETURN VALUE IN ACCB (CHARACTER COLOR)
       3660     F9BC 10 21 06 40              LBRN   RAMLINK                            RAM HOOK
       3661     F9C0 C1 08                    CMPB   #$08                               8 CHARACTER COLORS MAXIMUM
       3662     F9C2 10 24 BA 84              LBCC   ILLFUNC                            ILLEGAL FUNCTION CALL ERROR IF CHARACTER COLOR > 8
       3663     F9C6 58                       ALSB
       3664     F9C7 58                       ALSB
       3665     F9C8 58                       ALSB                                      SHIFT THE CHARACTER COLOR INTO BITS 3-6
       3666     F9C9 34 04                    PSHS   B                                  SAVE THE SHIFTED COLOR ON THE STACK
       3667     F9CB 9D A5                    JSR    GETCCH                             GET THE CURRENT INPUT CHARACTER
       3668     F9CD BD B2 6D                 JSR    SYNCOMMA                           SYNTAX CHECK FOR A COMMA
       3669     F9D0 BD B7 0B                 JSR    EVALEXPB                           EVALUATE EXPRESSION, RETURN VALUE IN ACCB (BACKGROUND COLOR)
       3670     F9D3 C1 08                    CMPB   #$08                               8 MAXIMUM BACKGROUND COLORS
       3671     F9D5 10 24 BA 71              LBCC   ILLFUNC                            ILLEGAL FUNCTION CALL ERROR IF > 8
       3672     F9D9 EA E4                    ORB    ,S                                 'OR' IN THE CHARACTER COLOR
       3673     F9DB 32 61                    LEAS   $01,S                              REMOVE TEMPORARY CHARACTER FROM STACK; ORB ,S+ ABOVE IS MORE EFFICIENT
       3674     F9DD C4 3F                    ANDB   #3F                                MASK OFF BITS 6,7; THIS INSTRUCTION IS UNNECESSARY
       3675     F9DF 34 04                    PSHS   B                                  SAVE THE CHARACTER AND BACKGROUND COLORS ON THE STACK
       3676     F9E1 9D A5                    JSR    GETCCH                             GET THE CURRENT INPUT CHARACTER
       3677     F9E3 27 21           LF9E3    BEQ    LFA06                              BRANCH IF END OF LINE
       3678     F9E5 BD B2 6D                 JSR    SYNCOMMA                           SYNTAX CHECK FOR A COMMA
       3679     F9E8 81 42                    CMPA   #'B'                               CHECK FOR THE BLINK ATTRIBUTE FLAG
       3680     F9EA 26 0A                    BNE    LF9F6                              BRANCH IF NOR BLINK ATTRIBUTE FLAG
       3681     F9EC 35 04                    PULS   B
       3682     F9EE CA 80                    ORB    #$80                               SET BIT 7 WHICH IS THE BLINK ATTRIBUTE BIT
       3683     F9F0 34 04                    PSHS   B
       3684     F9F2 9D 9F                    JSR    GETNCH                             GET A CHARACTER FROM BASIC'S INPUT LINE
       3685     F9F4 20 ED                    BRA    LF9E3                              KEEP CHECKING FOR ATTRIBUTE FLAGS
       3686     F9F6 81 55           LF9F6    CMPA   #'U'                               CHECK FOR THE UNDERLINE ATTRIBUTE
       3687     F9F8 10 26 BA 4E              LBNE   ILLFUNC                            ILLEGAL FUNCION CALL ERROR
       3688     F9FC 35 04                    PULS   B
       3689     F9FE CA 40                    ORB    #$40                               SET BIT 6 WHICH IS THE UNDERLINE ATTRIBUTE BIT
       3690     FA00 34 04                    PSHS   B
       3691     FA02 9D 9F                    JSR    GETNCH                             GET A CHARACTER FROM BASIC'S INPUT LINE
       3692     FA04 20 DD                    BRA    LF9E3                              KEEP CHECKING FOR ATTRIBUTE FLAGS
       3693     FA06 35 04           LFA06    PULS   B                                  GET THE NEW ATTRIBUTE BYTE FROM THE STACK
       3694     FA08 F7 FE 08                 STB    H.CRSATT                           AND SAVE IT AS THE CURSOR ATTRIBUTES
       3695     FA0B 39                       RTS
       3696
       3697
       3698     FA0C                 LFA0C    RMB    1012                               UNUSED BYTES
       3699     FE00                 LFE00    RMB    256                                $FE00 SECONDARY VECTORS AREA
       3700     FF00                 LFF00    RMB    256                                $FF00 INPUT/OUTPUT AREA




                                                                                 B39
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                       APPENDIX C                                     ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                           SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 2.0 SYMBOL TABLE           REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK



      ALINK12     E288          EXECCART   A05E          IM.MMU      E0E1          LB657       B657          LC271       C271
      ALINK14     E389          FP0EXP     004F          IM.PALET    E678          LB70E       B70E          LC275       C275
      ALINK15     E429          FPA0       0050          IM.RGB      E664          LB734       B734          LC277       C277
      ALINK16     E413          FRETOP     0021          IM.TEXT     E032          LB73D       B73D          LC278       C278
      ALINK17     E532          FUNDIC20   E264          INIT0       FF90          LB740       B740          LC28A       C28A
      ALINK18     E3B4          FUNDIS20   E27E          INIT1       FF91          LB89D       B89D          LC28C       C28C
      ALINK19     E4D0          G1BITPIX   E7FF          INT.FLAG    FEED          LB8D7       B8D7          LC28D       C28D
      ALINK2      E138          G2BITBIX   E820          INTCNV      B3ED          LB905       B905          LC294       C294
      ALINK20     E470          G4BITPIX   E83F          INTIMAGE    C359          LB958       B958          LC296       C296
      ALINK21     E502          GETBLOK0   E00A          KEYIN       A1CB          LB95C       B95C          LC297       C297
      ALINK22     F7AE          GETCCH     00A5          L4000       4000          LB95F       B95F          LC299       C299
      ALINK23     F6AD          GETNCH     009F          L80B8       80B8          LB9D7       B9D7          LC29B       C29B
      ALINK24     F77E          GETTASK0   E00C          L80E7       80E7          LBA92       BA92          LC29C       C29C
      ALINK25     F8C3          GETTASK1   E00E          L8800       8800          LBC35       BC35          LC29E       C29E
      ALINK26     F8A3          GETTEXT    E008          L883F       883F          LBCC8       BCC8          LC2A0       C2A0
      ALINK27     F757          GIVABF     B4F4          LA0CE       A0CE          LBDD9       BDD9          LC2A1       C2A1
      ALINK28     E297          H.BCOLOR   FE0B          LA35F       A35F          LC000       C000          LC2A3       C2A3
      ALINK29     E29D          H.COLUMN   FE04          LA390       A390          LC00D       C00D          LC2A5       C2A5
      ALINK3      E172          H.CRSATT   FE08          LA3C6       A3C6          LC01B       C01B          LC2A6       C2A6
      ALINK4      E192          H.CRSLOC   FE00          LA554       A554          LC02F       C02F          LC2A8       C2A8
      ALINK5      E1A6          H.CURSX    FE02          LA7D3       A7D3          LC056       C056          LC2AA       C2AA
      ALINK6A     E3F8          H.CURSY    FE03          LA928       A928          LC091       C091          LC2AB       C2AB
      ALINK6B     E40C          H.DISPEN   FE06          LAC33       AC33          LC0B1       C0B1          LC2AE       C2AE
      ALLCOL      00B5          H.ERLINE   FE13          LAC44       AC44          LC0C2       C0C2          LC2B0       C2B0
      ANGLE       00E8          H.ERRBRK   FE17          LAC46       AC46          LC0C9       C0C9          LC2B1       C2B1
      ATTR        F9B9          H.ERROR    FE10          LAC49       AC49          LC0DC       C0DC          LC2B2       C2B2
      AUTHORMS    F71B          H.FCOLOR   FE0A          LAC65       AC65          LC0F1       C0F1          LC2B4       C2B4
      AUTHPIC     C405          H.ONBRK    FE0C          LAC76       AC76          LC0F6       C0F6          LC2B5       C2B5
      BAS20ERR    E4CC          H.ONBRKS   FE15          LACA0       ACA0          LC106       C106          LC2B8       C2B8
      BASIC       A000          H.ONERR    FE0E          LAD05       AD05          LC10C       C10C          LC2BA       C2BA
      BEGMOVE     C03F          H.ONERRS   FE11          LAD19       AD19          LC137       C137          LC2BB       C2BB
      BINVAL      002B          H.PBUF     FE19          LAD43       AD43          LC165       C165          LC2BF       C2BF
      BLKCNT      0094          H.PCOUNT   FE18          LADC4       ADC4          LC175       C175          LC2C1       C2C1
      BRK         E3E6          HBUFF      ED58          LADD4       ADD4          LC180       C180          LC2C2       C2C2
      BUTTON      E5B1          HCALPOS    E7DA          LADF4       ADF4          LC185       C185          LC2C6       C2C6
      CALTABLE    E7DE          HCIRCLE    EA49          LAE09       AE09          LC18C       C18C          LC2C8       C2C8
      CHARAD      00A6          HCLS       E6CF          LAE11       AE11          LC19A       C19A          LC2C9       C2C9
      CHGFLG      00DB          HCOLOR     E6F4          LAEBB       AEBB          LC1AA       C1AA          LC2CB       C2CB
      CIRCDATA    EB99          HDRAW      F39D          LAEEB       AEEB          LC1B1       C1B1          LC2CD       C2CD
      CLRHIRES    E6D8          HGET       EDE5          LAF45       AF45          LC1DE       C1DE          LC2CE       C2CE
      CMP         E676          HLINE      E882          LAF67       AF67          LC1E7       C1E7          LC2D1       C2D1
      COL32       F652          HORBEG     00BD          LB141       B141          LC1F0       C1F0          LC2D3       C2D3
      COL40       F65C          HORBYT     00B9          LB156       B156          LC20A       C20A          LC2D4       C2D4
      COL80       F679          HORDEF     00C7          LB262       B262          LC22A       C22A          LC2D8       C2D8
      COMDIC20    E1C5          HOREND     00C3          LB267       B267          LC24E       C24E          LC2DA       C2DA
      COMDIS20    E236          HPAINT     EBF5          LB26A       B26A          LC257       C257          LC2DB       C2DB
      CURLIN      0068          HPOINT     E85C          LB26F       B26F          LC259       C259          LC2DE       C2DE
      DCNVEC      C004          HPRINT     EF3F          LB277       B277          LC25A       C25A          LC2E0       C2E0
      DEVNUM      006F          HPUT       EDED          LB284       B284          LC25B       C25B          LC2E1       C2E1
      DISK20MS    E2A3          HRESBUFF   C000          LB2CE       B2CE          LC25D       C25D          LC2E4       C2E4
      DISK21MS    E316          HRESET     E765          LB357       B357          LC25E       C25E          LC2E6       C2E6
      DOSBAS      C000          HRMODE     00E6          LB3A2       B3A2          LC261       C261          LC2E7       C2E7
      EBCOMTAB    E162          HRWIDTH    00E7          LB3E9       B3E9          LC263       C263          LC2EA       C2EA
      ENDMOVE     C36C          HSCREEN    E688          LB4F3       B4F3          LC264       C264          LC2EC       C2EC
      ERLIN       E4FD          HSET       E761          LB511       B511          LC267       C267          LC2ED       C2ED
      ERNO        E4E9          HSTAT      F925          LB516       B516          LC269       C269          LC2F0       C2F0
      ERR         E3D4          ILLFUNC    B44A          LB54C       B54C          LC26A       C26A          LC2F2       C2F2
      EVALEXPB    B70B          IM.CMP     E654          LB56D       B56D          LC26E       C26E          LC2F3       C2F3
      EXBAS       8000          IM.GRAPH   E070          LB654       B654          LC270       C270          LC2FB       C2FB




                                                            C1
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                    APPENDIX C                                     ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                        SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 2.0 SYMBOL TABLE           REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK



      LC2FD       C2FD          LE1DD   E1DD          LE36A       E36A          LE73B       E73B          LEA29       EA29
      LC2FE       C2FE          LE1E1   E1E1          LE36B       E36B          LE759       E759          LEA2B       EA2B
      LC301       C301          LE1E7   E1E7          LE386       E386          LE75D       E75D          LEA2D       EA2D
      LC303       C303          LE1ED   E1ED          LE3C2       E3C2          LE76A       E76A          LEA33       EA33
      LC304       C304          LE1F4   E1F4          LE3CF       E3CF          LE77F       E77F          LEA34       EA34
      LC307       C307          LE1F9   E1F9          LE424       E424          LE782       E782          LEA3D       EA3D
      LC309       C309          LE1FD   E1FD          LE426       E426          LE788       E788          LEA44       EA44
      LC30A       C30A          LE201   E201          LE430       E430          LE792       E792          LEA45       EA45
      LC30D       C30D          LE206   E206          LE43F       E43F          LE7AA       E7AA          LEA59       EA59
      LC322       C322          LE20C   E20C          LE446       E446          LE7AD       E7AD          LEA95       EA95
      LC334       C334          LE20F   E20F          LE449       E449          LE7B0       E7B0          LEA9F       EA9F
      LC33B       C33B          LE212   E212          LE458       E458          LE7B2       E7B2          LEAB3       EAB3
      LC349       C349          LE218   E218          LE466       E466          LE7B9       E7B9          LEAC7       EAC7
      LC351       C351          LE21D   E21D          LE47D       E47D          LE7BF       E7BF          LEAE7       EAE7
      LC352       C352          LE221   E221          LE488       E488          LE7CD       E7CD          LEB13       EB13
      LC355       C355          LE227   E227          LE496       E496          LE7D0       E7D0          LEB1E       EB1E
      LC356       C356          LE22C   E22C          LE49F       E49F          LE7D7       E7D7          LEB20       EB20
      LC35A       C35A          LE22F   E22F          LE4B0       E4B0          LE7E6       E7E6          LEB32       EB32
      LD67F       D67F          LE232   E232          LE4B3       E4B3          LE875       E875          LEB3D       EB3D
      LDC05       DC05          LE238   E238          LE4C7       E4C7          LE87B       E87B          LEB3F       EB3F
      LE010       E010          LE23A   E23A          LE4CE       E4CE          LE899       E899          LEB48       EB48
      LE033       E033          LE23C   E23C          LE4F4       E4F4          LE8B3       E8B3          LEB53       EB53
      LE03B       E03B          LE23E   E23E          LE4F9       E4F9          LE8B4       E8B4          LEB5C       EB5C
      LE03C       E03C          LE240   E240          LE4FA       E4FA          LE8EB       E8EB          LEB5F       EB5F
      LE044       E044          LE242   E242          LE51E       E51E          LE8F2       E8F2          LEB60       EB60
      LE045       E045          LE244   E244          LE528       E528          LE8F4       E8F4          LEB73       EB73
      LE063       E063          LE246   E246          LE52B       E52B          LE8F6       E8F6          LEB7B       EB7B
      LE06D       E06D          LE248   E248          LE58E       E58E          LE905       E905          LEB91       EB91
      LE06E       E06E          LE24A   E24A          LE59A       E59A          LE906       E906          LEB9B       EB9B
      LE06F       E06F          LE24C   E24C          LE5AF       E5AF          LE913       E913          LEB9D       EB9D
      LE071       E071          LE24E   E24E          LE5D5       E5D5          LE921       E921          LEBA1       EBA1
      LE079       E079          LE250   E250          LE5D9       E5D9          LE92F       E92F          LEBA5       EBA5
      LE07A       E07A          LE252   E252          LE5E3       E5E3          LE931       E931          LEBA9       EBA9
      LE08B       E08B          LE254   E254          LE5EA       E5EA          LE93E       E93E          LEBAB       EBAD
      LE0CB       E0CB          LE256   E256          LE5EC       E5EC          LE94E       E94E          LEBAF       EBB1
      LE0E9       E0E9          LE258   E258          LE5FA       E5FA          LE95D       E95D          LEBB5       EBB5
      LE0F1       E0F1          LE25A   E25A          LE600       E600          LE96C       E96C          LEBB9       EBB9
      LE0F7       E0F7          LE25C   E25C          LE606       E606          LE977       E977          LEBBD       EBBD
      LE148       E148          LE25E   E25E          LE60C       E60C          LE988       E988          LEBCA       EBCA
      LE14D       E14D          LE260   E260          LE62A       E62A          LE98D       E98D          LEBCB       EBCB
      LE152       E152          LE262   E262          LE634       E634          LE9AD       E9AD          LEBEA       EBEA
      LE158       E158          LE269   E269          LE648       E648          LE9B1       E9B1          LEC05       EC05
      LE15B       E15B          LE26F   E26F          LE64A       E64A          LE9B8       E9B8          LEC1D       EC1D
      LE15D       E15D          LE275   E275          LE693       E693          LE9B9       E9B9          LEC47       EC47
      LE163       E163          LE279   E279          LE69C       E69C          LE9BF       E9BF          LEC4A       EC4A
      LE165       E165          LE280   E280          LE6A5       E6A5          LE9C6       E9C6          LEC51       EC51
      LE167       E167          LE282   E282          LE6B9       E6B9          LE9CC       E9CC          LEC6A       EC6A
      LE168       E168          LE284   E284          LE6BC       E6BC          LE9CD       E9CD          LEC6E       EC6E
      LE16A       E16A          LE286   E286          LE6CB       E6CB          LE9D1       E9D1          LEC80       EC80
      LE16C       E16C          LE2C0   E2C0          LE6D6       E6D6          LE9DB       E9DB          LEC83       EC83
      LE18B       E18B          LE2C1   E2C1          LE6E4       E6E4          LE9E1       E9E1          LEC86       EC86
      LE19A       E19A          LE2DA   E2DA          LE6EF       E6EF          LE9F0       E9F0          LEC88       EC88
      LE19E       E19E          LE2DB   E2DB          LE705       E705          LEA04       EA04          LEC9B       EC9B
      LE1AE       E1AE          LE2F7   E2F7          LE70D       E70D          LEA0A       EA0A          LECA5       ECA5
      LE1B2       E1B2          LE313   E313          LE70E       E70E          LEA0D       EA0D          LECB7       ECB7
      LE1BF       E1BF          LE333   E333          LE711       E711          LEA16       EA16          LECBA       ECBA
      LE1CA       E1CA          LE334   E334          LE718       E718          LEA21       EA21          LECBE       ECBE
      LE1D1       E1D1          LE33D   E34D          LE72F       E72F          LEA25       EA25          LECC7       ECC7
      LE1D8       E1D8          LE33E   E34E          LE731       E731          LEA27       EA27          LECCD       ECCD




                                                         C2
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                    APPENDIX C                                     ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                        SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 2.0 SYMBOL TABLE           REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK



      LECD1       ECD1          LEF7F   EF7F          LF1DD       F1DD          LF3C5       F3C5          LF6DC       F6DC
      LECE8       ECE8          LEF8E   EF8E          LF1E5       F1E5          LF3CF       F3CF          LF6E0       F6E0
      LECEA       ECEA          LEF96   EF96          LF1ED       F1ED          LF3E6       F3E6          LF6E7       F6E7
      LECF1       ECF1          LEFA3   EFA3          LF1F5       F1F5          LF3EE       F3EE          LF719       F719
      LED01       ED01          LEFAD   EFAD          LF1FD       F1FD          LF417       F417          LF730       F730
      LED15       ED15          LEFD9   EFD9          LF205       F205          LF445       F445          LF74D       F74D
      LED20       ED20          LEFDB   EFDB          LF20D       F20D          LF451       F451          LF75E       F75E
      LED2E       ED2E          LEFFE   EFFE          LF215       F215          LF45C       F45C          LF761       F761
      LED3A       ED3A          LF001   F001          LF21D       F21D          LF467       F467          LF766       F766
      LED3F       ED3F          LF002   F002          LF225       F225          LF46D       F46D          LF772       F772
      LED4E       ED4E          LF004   F004          LF22D       F22D          LF46F       F46F          LF778       F778
      LED72       ED72          LF006   F006          LF235       F235          LF473       F473          LF787       F787
      LED85       ED85          LF008   F008          LF23D       F23D          LF47D       F47D          LF79F       F79F
      LED95       ED95          LF00A   F00A          LF245       F245          LF485       F485          LF7A4       F7A4
      LED97       ED97          LF01A   F01A          LF24D       F24D          LF487       F487          LF7A8       F7A8
      LEDA3       EDA3          LF035   F035          LF255       F255          LF48C       F48C          LF7C4       F7C4
      LEDB0       EDB0          LF045   F045          LF25D       F25D          LF492       F492          LF7CC       F7CC
      LEDBD       EDBD          LF06C   F06C          LF265       F265          LF496       F496          LF7D7       F7D7
      LEDC4       EDC4          LF08C   F08C          LF26D       F26D          LF49A       F49A          LF7DE       F7DE
      LEDD2       EDD2          LF09D   F09D          LF275       F275          LF4A1       F4A1          LF7E2       F7E2
      LEDD6       EDD6          LF0A5   F0A5          LF27D       F27D          LF4B2       F4B2          LF802       F802
      LEDD8       EDD8          LF0AD   F0AD          LF285       F285          LF4BF       F4BF          LF807       F807
      LEDF4       EDF4          LF0B5   F0B5          LF28D       F28D          LF4D0       F4D0          LF827       F827
      LEE06       EE06          LF0BD   F0BD          LF295       F295          LF4D1       F4D1          LF82E       F82E
      LEE23       EE23          LF0C5   F0C5          LF29D       F29D          LF4D4       F4D4          LF854       F854
      LEE28       EE28          LF0CD   F0CD          LF2A5       F2A5          LF4E5       F4E5          LF860       F860
      LEE34       EE34          LF0D5   F0D5          LF2AD       F2AD          LF4F1       F4F1          LF86A       F86A
      LEE38       EE38          LF0DD   F0DD          LF2B5       F2B5          LF4FC       F4FC          LF86E       F86E
      LEE50       EE50          LF0E5   F0E5          LF2BD       F2BD          LF507       F507          LF87B       F87B
      LEE5D       EE5D          LF0ED   F0ED          LF2C5       F2C5          LF510       F510          LF88A       F88A
      LEE6D       EE6D          LF0F5   F0F5          LF2CD       F2CD          LF51F       F51F          LF8AB       F8AB
      LEE92       EE92          LF0FD   F0FD          LF2D5       F2D5          LF527       F527          LF8B1       F8B1
      LEE96       EE96          LF105   F105          LF2DD       F2DD          LF53B       F53B          LF8CD       F8CD
      LEEA7       EEA7          LF10D   F10D          LF2E5       F2E5          LF545       F545          LF8EB       F8EB
      LEEAB       EEAB          LF115   F115          LF2ED       F2ED          LF54C       F54C          LF8ED       F8ED
      LEEC0       EEC0          LF11D   F11D          LF2F5       F2F5          LF570       F570          LF963       F963
      LEEC7       EEC7          LF125   F125          LF2FD       F2FD          LF575       F575          LF9E3       F9E3
      LEED3       EED3          LF12D   F12D          LF305       F305          LF578       F578          LF9F6       F9F6
      LEEE0       EEE0          LF135   F135          LF30D       F30D          LF583       F583          LFA06       FA06
      LEEE2       EEE2          LF13D   F13D          LF315       F315          LF584       F584          LFA0C       FA0C
      LEEE3       EEE3          LF145   F145          LF31D       F31D          LF590       F590          LFE00       FE00
      LEEE5       EEE5          LF14D   F14D          LF325       F325          LF591       F591          LFF00       FF00
      LEEE6       EEE6          LF155   F155          LF32D       F32D          LF593       F593          LOCATE      F8D2
      LEEE8       EEE8          LF15D   F15D          LF335       F335          LF5A7       F5A7          LPEEK       E573
      LEEE9       EEE9          LF165   F165          LF33D       F33D          LF5B6       F5B6          LPOKE       E545
      LEEEB       EEEB          LF16D   F16D          LF345       F345          LF5C1       F5C1          MICROMS     F702
      LEEEC       EEEC          LF175   F175          LF34D       F34D          LF5DA       F5DA          MMUIMAGE    C246
      LEEEE       EEEE          LF17D   F17D          LF355       F355          LF5DD       F5DD          MMUREG      FFA0
      LEEEF       EEEF          LF185   F185          LF35D       F35D          LF5F2       F5F2          MOVE.XY     C1D6
      LEEF6       EEF6          LF18D   F18D          LF365       F365          LF5FA       F5FA          MWAREMS     E2F8
      LEEFE       EEFE          LF195   F195          LF36D       F36D          LF5FD       F5FD          NEGACCD     F4CC
      LEF07       EF07          LF19D   F19D          LF375       F375          LF608       F608          NOWARM      C0DE
      LEF10       EF10          LF1A5   F1A5          LF37D       F37D          LF610       F610          OLDPTR      002D
      LEF18       EF18          LF1AD   F1AD          LF385       F385          LF611       F611          PALETTE     E5F0
      LEF25       EF25          LF1B5   F1B5          LF38D       F38D          LF61F       F61F          PALETREG    FFB0
      LEF2C       EF2C          LF1BD   F1BD          LF395       F395          LF64F       F64F          PALIMAGE    C236
      LEF62       EF62          LF1C5   F1C5          LF3B8       F3B8          LF66D       F66D          PATCH28     C0C6
      LEF6C       EF6C          LF1CD   F1CD          LF3BD       F3BD          LF68C       F68C          PATCH29     C0D9
      LEF75       EF75          LF1D5   F1D5          LF3C3       F3C3          LF69B       F69B          PATCH30     C8B4




                                                         C3
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                       APPENDIX C                             ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                           SUPER EXTENDED BASIC 2.0 SYMBOL TABLE   REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK



      PATCHTAB    C256          VEREND     00C5
      PIA0        FF00          VIDEOREG   FF98
      PIA1        FF20          VIDIMAGE   C22E
      PIX1MASK    E7F1          VIDRAM     0400
      PIX2MASK    E7F9          WAITLOOP   C22C
      PIX4MASK    E7FD          WCOLOR     00B4
      PIXELFIL    E742          WIDTH      F636
      PRGGRAPH    E004          ZERO       008A
      PRGMMU      E006
      PRGTEXT     E002
      RAMLINK     0000
      RESTABLE    E06C
      RESVEC      A027
      RGB         E674
      RSTFLG      0071
      RSTVEC      0072
      SAM         FFC0
      SCALE       00E9
      SELBLOK0    E0A1
      SELTASK0    E0FF
      SELTASK1    E119
      SELTEXT     E0B5
      SETFLG      00C2
      SETGRAPH    E04D
      SETMMU      E097
      SETTEXT     E019
      SETVIDEO    E082
      SPARE0      E013
      SPARE1      E015
      SPARE2      E017
      STRINOUT    B99C
      SUPERVAR    E000
      SYNCOMMA    B26D
      TEMPPT      000B
      TMERROR     B151
      TMPSTACK    DFFF
      TMPSTK      00DC
      TXTTAB      0019
      V.BORDER    FF9A
      V.TIMER     FF94
      V40         0040
      V41         0041
      V42         0042
      V44         0044
      VALTYP      0006
      VARDES      003B
      VCB         00CB
      VCD         00CD
      VCF         00CF
      VD1         00D1
      VD3         00D3
      VD4         00D4
      VD5         00D5
      VD6         00D6
      VD7         00D7
      VD8         00D8
      VD9         00D9
      VERBEG      00BF
      VERDEF      00C9




                                                            C4
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                 APPENDIX D                        ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                          GIME CHIP CONTROL REGISTERS   REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK


           The major functions of the GIME chip are controlled by the chip control
     register which are mapped into the I/O page ($FF00-$FFFF) which is always
     present in the logical address space regardless of the status of the MMU
     registers. The area from $FF90-$FFBF in particular is a direct link to the
     GIME chip.

            FF90         Initialization Register 0 (INIT0)

                         BIT7        COCO            1=Color Computer Compatible
                         BIT6        MMUEN           1=MMU Enabled (COCO = 0)
                         BIT5        IEN             1=Chip IRQ output enabled
                         BIT4        FEN             1=Chip FIRQ output enabled
                         BIT3        MC3             1=RAM at XFEFF is constant
                         BIT2        MC2             1=$FF40-4F external; 0=internal
                         BIT1        MC1             ROM map control (see table below)
                         BIT0        MC0             ROM map control (see table below)

                         MC1         MC0             ROM mapping
                         0           X               16K Internal, 16K external
                         1           0               32K Internal
                         1           1               32K External (except vectors)


            FF91         Initialization Register 1 (INIT1)

                         BIT6-7                      Unused
                         BIT5        TINS            Timer clock: 1 = 70nsec, 0 = 63.5 usec
                         BIT1-4                      Unused
                         BIT0        TR              MMU task register select


            FF92         IRQ Interrupt Enable/Status Register (IRQENR)
                         BIT6-7              Unused
                         BIT5    TMR         Timer
                         BIT4    HBORD       Horizontal Border
                         BIT3    VBORD       Vertical Border
                         BIT2    EI2         RS-232 serial port
                         BIT1    EI1         Keyboard
                         BIT0    EI0         Cartridge Port


            FF93         FIRQ Interrupt Enable/Status Register (FIRQENR)
                         BIT6-7              Unused
                         BIT5    TMR         Timer
                         BIT4    HBORD       Horizontal Border
                         BIT3    VBORD       Vertical Border
                         BIT2    EI2         RS-232 serial port
                         BIT1    EI1         Keyboard
                         BIT0    EI0         Cartridge Port




                                                      D1
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                 APPENDIX D                        ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                          GIME CHIP CONTROL REGISTERS   REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK


            FF94         Timer Register (MSB)

                         BIT4-7                      Unused
                         BIT0-3                      Most Significant 4 bits of timer


            FF95         Timer Register (LSB)

                         BIT0-7                      Least Significant 8 bits of timer


            FF96,7       Reserved


            FF98         Video Mode Register

                         BIT7        BP              0=text, 1=bit plane graphics
                         BIT6                        Unused
                         BIT5        BPI             Burst Phase Invert (Color Set)
                         BIT4        MOCH            1=Monochrome (Composite Monitor)
                         BIT3        H50             1=50Hz vertical sync
                         BIT0-2      LPR             Lines per Row


            FF99         Video Resolution Register

                         BIT7                        Undefined
                         BIT5-6      LPF             Lines per Field (number of rows)
                         BIT2-4      HRES            Horizontal Resolution
                         BIT0-1      CRES            Color Resolution


            FF9A         Border Register

                         BIT6-7                      Unused
                         BIT0-5                      Border Color


            FF9B         Unused


            FF9C         Vertical Scroll Register

                         BIT4-7                      Unused
                         BIT0-3      VSC             Vertical Scroll Bits


            FF9D         Vertical Offset Register (MSB)

                         BIT0-7      Y8-Y15          Vertical offset high order byte




                                                      D2
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II              APPENDIX D                        ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                       GIME CHIP CONTROL REGISTERS   REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




            FF9E         Vertical Offset Register (LSB)

                         BIT0-7      Y0-Y7        Vertical offset low order byte


            FF9F         Horizontal Offset Register

                         BIT7        HVEN         Horizontal Virtual Enable
                         BIT0-6      HOFF         Horizontal Offset


            FFA0-FFA7    Memory Management Unit Task Register 0


            FFA8-FFAF    Memory Management Unit Task Register 1


            FFB0-FFBF    Palette Registers




                                                   D3
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II            APPENDIX E                         ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                       COLOR COMPUTER 3 COLORS      REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK


         Listed below are the 64 different colors available on the Color Computer 3.
    In order to use the colors, first decide which color you wish to display and find
    the color closest to your desired color in the table below. Then you must know
    whether the color will be viewed on an RGB monitor (RGB) or a composite monitor
    or a television set (CMP). Get the color number from the appropriate monitor
    column and store that number into a palette register or the border color register.
         The names assigned to these colors are based upon the names given to the RGB
    colors. Since the methods in which the RGB and composite colors are generated
    are not the same (as explained in Chapter Five) the name of the color may not
    agree whith what you personally see the color to be. This table is presented
    in order to provide a universal conversion between the RGB and composite colors.
    All you need to do is have a short program such as the one shown in Figure 16
    to allow easy conversion of colors in your program based upon the type of
    monitor being used to view the program. The table of colors given below is
    the conversion used in OS-9 Level Two.

           Monitor      Color                           Monitor   Color
           RGB CMP                                      RGB CMP
           00 00        Black                            32 23    Medium intensity red
           01 12        Low intensity blue               33   8   Blue tint red
           02 02        Low intensity green              34 21    Light Orange
           03 14        Low intensity cyan               35   6   Cyan tint red
           04 07        Low intensity red                36 39    Full intensity red
           05 09        Low intensity magenta            37 24    Magenta tint red
           06 05        Low intensity brown              38 38    Brown tint red
           07 16        Low intensity white              39 54    Faded red
           08 28        Medium intensity blue            40 25    Medium intensity magenta
           09 44        Full intensity blue              41 42    Blue tint magenta
           10 13        Green tint blue                  42 26    Green tint magenta
           11 29        Cyan tint blue                   43 58    Cyan tint magenta
           12 11        Red tint blue                    44 24    Red tint magenta
           13 27        Magenta tint blue                45 41    Full intensity magenta
           14 10        Brown tint blue                  46 40    Brown tint magenta
           15 43        Faded blue                       47 56    Faded magenta
           16 34        Medium intensity green           48 20    Medium intensity yellow
           17 17        Blue tint green                  49   4   Blue tint yellow
           18 18        Full intensity green             50 35    Green tint yellow
           19 33        Cyan tint green                  51 51    Cyan tint yellow
           20 03        Red tint green                   52 37    Red tint yellow
           21 01        Magenta tint green               53 53    Magenta tint yellow
           22 19        Brown tint green                 54 36    Full intensity yellow
           23 50        Faded green                      55 52    Faded yellow
           24 30        Medium intensity cyan            56 32    Medium intensity white
           25 45        Blue tint cyan                   57 59    Light blue
           26 31        Green tint cyan                  58 49    Light green
           27 46        Full intensity cyan              59 62    Light cyan
           28 15        Red tint cyan                    60 55    Light red
           29 60        Magenta tint cyan                61 57    Light magenta
           30 47        Brown tint cyan                  62 63    Light yellow
           31 61        Faded cyan                       63 48    White




                                                 E1
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II            APPENDIX E                         ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                       COLOR COMPUTER 3 COLORS      REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK


                        Converting RGB Colors to Composite Colors

         It will often be beneficial to allow a graphic display to appear the same on
    a composite monitor as it does on an RGB monitor. The following Basic routine,
    which will convert an RGB color code into its closest similar composite color code,
    can be used. Since RGB colors are derived in a different manner than composite
    colors, no conversion will be exact.

           10 'SET UP CONVERSION FACTORS FOR COMPOSITE COLORS
           20 DIM C(63) : FOR X = 0 TO 63 : READ C(X) : NEXT X
           30 GOTO 100
           40 DATA 0,12,2,14,7,9,5,16,28,44,13,29,11,27,10,43
           50 DATA 34,17,18,33,3,1,19,50,30,45,31,46,15,60,47,61
           60 DATA 23,8,21,6,39,24,38,54,25,42,26,58,24,41,40,56
           70 DATA 20,4,35,51,37,53,36,52,32,59,49,62,55,57,63,48
           80 'CONVERT C TO COMPOSITE COLOR IF NOT RGB MON. (R=0)
           90 IF R=0 THEN C=C(C) : RETURN ELSE RETURN
           100 'MAIN BODY OF PROGRAM

                FIGURE 16 - BASIC PROGRAM TO CONVERT RGB COLORS TO COMPOSITE


           The above routine should be near the beginning of the program (but after the
           CLEAR statement). The program must ask for the type of monitor being used.
           If an RGB monitor is in use, set R=1, otherwise set R=0. Then, when it is
           time to set a color, make C equal to the RGB color desired and execute a
           GOSUB 90. The color will be converted to the appropriate composite color.
           Then simply set the palette to the value in C. For example (assuming R
           has already been set up), a line might read
           270 C=27 : GOSUB 90 : PALETTE 3,C




                                                 E2
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                  APPENDIX F                             ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                     SUPER EXTENDED BASIC'S DATA/ASCII TABLES REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




            Listed below are all of the data and ASCII tables found in the last half (C000-FDFF) of the
      Super Extended Basic ROM.


      START         END       DESCRIPTION

       C22E        C235       VIDEO CONTROL REGISTERS' IMAGE (INITIALIZATION)
       C236        C245       PALETTE REGISTERS' IMAGE (INITIALIZATION)
       C246        C255       MMU REGISTERS' IMAGE (INITIALIZATION)
       C256        C30C       COLOR/EXTENDED BASIC PATCH TABLE
       C30D        C321       CODED AUTHORS' NAMES
       C351        C358       DISK BASIC PATCH TABLE
       C359        C36B       INTERRUPT JUMP TABLE IMAGE
       C405        DC04       DIGITIZED PICTURE OF THE AUTHORS
       E000        E018       ROM ROUTINES' ADDRESS VECTORS
       E032        E04C       VIDEO REGISTERS' TEXT MODE IMAGES
       E06C        E06F       VIDEO RESOLUTION REGISTER ($FF99) VALUES
       E070        E081       VIDEO REGISTERS' GRAPHICS MODE IMAGES
       E0E1        E0F0       MMU IMAGES
       E162        E16B       COMMAND INTERPRETATION TABLE
       E1C5        E235       COMMANDS DICTIONARY
       E236        E263       COMMANDS DISPATCH TABLE
       E264        E27D       FUNCTIONS DICTIONARY
       E27E        E287       FUNCTIONS DISPATCH TABLE
       E2A3        E2F7       DISK BASIC 2.0 COPYRIGHT MESSAGE
       E2F8        E315       'AND MICROWARE SYSTEMS CORP.' MESSAGE
       E316        E388       DISK BASIC 2.1 COPYRIGHT MESSAGE
       E4CC        E4CF       SUPER EXTENDED BASIC ERROR CODES
       E654        E663       TABLE OF 'OFFICIAL' COMPOSITE COLORS
       E664        E673       TABLE OF 'OFFICIAL' RGB COLORS
       E678        E687       PALETTE REGISTERS' RAM IMAGE
       E6CB        E6CE       TABLE OF HOW MANY BYTES PER HORIZONTAL ROW IN THE
                              HIGH RESOLUTION GRAPHICS MODES
       E759        E75C       TABLE OF SINGLE PIXEL MASKS FOR THE HI-RES GRAPHICS MODES
       E75D        E760       TABLE OF MULTIPLIERS TO SPREAD A SINGLE PIXEL MASK
                              THROUGH AN ENTIRE BYTE
       E7F1        E7FE       TABLE OF 1,2 AND 4 BIT SHIFTED PIXEL MASKS
       EA25        EA2C       TABLE OF PIXEL MOVE ADDRESSES
       EB99        EBBC       TABLE OF SINES AND COSINES FOR THE HCIRCLE COMMAND
       EEE0        EEEE       LOOKUP TABLE FOR PSET, PRESET, AND, OR AND NOT ROUTINES
                              FOR THE HPUT COMMAND
       F002        F00B       TABLE OF ADDRESSES FOR THE HI-RES PRINT DRIVERS
       F035        F044       TABLE OF ALL POSSIBLE 2 BIT PIXEL MASKS
       F06C        F08B       TABLE OF ALL POSSIBLE DOUBLE BYTE 4 BIT PIXEL MASKS
       F09D        F39C       HIGH RESOLUTION SOFTWARE CHARACTER GERNERATOR 'ROM'
       F702        F71A       'MICROWARE SYSTEMS CORP.' MESSAGE
       F71B        F72F       AUTHORS' NAMES - THIS AREA IS ALL ZEROS IN THE ROM. AFTER
                              INITIALIZATION THE AUTHORS' NAMES WILL BE FOUND HERE (IN RAM)
                              UNTIL YOU EXECUTE A CLS 100 COMMAND, AFTER WHICH TIME YOU WILL
                              FIND NOPs IN THIS AREA.




                                                         F1
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II               APPENDIX G                           ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                     SUPER EXTENDED BASIC ROM ROUTINES   REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




           At the back of the Color Computer 3 Extended Basic manual, you will find
      a section called ROM ROUTINES. In this section you will find a summary of
      the official ROM calls which may be made. These official calls are located at
      $A000 and are made by indirect subroutine calls to the addresses given. No
      mention is made of a suspicious looking table of addresses located at address
      $E000 which is the beginning of the new code added to the Basic ROM by the
      Color Computer 3. These addresses are similar to a table of addresses at the
      beginning of the Disk Basic ROM which is only partially documented. It is the
      opinion of the author that the Super Extended table, as well as the Disk Basic
      table, will be maintained by Tandy and should be used as if they were supported
      by Tandy. The reader is cautioned that this is just the OPINION of the author
      and is by no means the official stance of Tandy.


      SUPERVAR = [E000]
      This is the address of the direct page variables used by Super Extended Basic.
      It is not the address of a routine.

      ENTRY CONDITIONS
      Not applicable

      EXIT CONDITIONS
      Not applicable


      PRGTEXT = [E002]
      Program INIT0 and the video control registers with their RAM images according
      to the value contained in HRWIDTH. Basic (unmodified by the user) will do the
      following: 1) If HRWIDTH = 0, set up 32 column CoCo compatible mode, 2) If
      HRWIDTH = 1, set up the 40 column hi-res text mode, 3) If HRWIDTH = anything
      else, set up the 80 column hi-res text mode. A RAM hook exists in this routine
      which will allow the user to modify it.

      ENTRY CONDITIONS
      HRWIDTH should be set to a valid value.

      EXIT CONDITIONS
      INIT0 and the video control registers are modified. All CPU registers, except
      CC are preserved.


      PRGGRAPH = [E004]
      Program INIT0 and the video control registers with their RAM images according
      to the value contained in HRMODE. Basic (unmodified by the user) will do the
      following: 1) If HRMODE is 1,2,3 or 4, set the proper HSCREEN graphics mode
      or 2) if HRMODE is any other value, cause invalid and potentially disastrous
      data to be programmed into INIT0 and the video control registers. A RAM hook
      exists in this routine which will allow the user to modify it.

      ENTRY CONDITIONS
      HRMODE should be set to a valid value (1-4)



                                                    G1
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II               APPENDIX G                           ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                     SUPER EXTENDED BASIC ROM ROUTINES   REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




      EXIT CONDITIONS
      INIT0 and the video control registers are modified. All CPU registers, except
      CC are preserved.


      PRGMMU = [E006]
      Program the MMU registers with their RAM images.

      ENTRY CONDITIONS
      None

      EXIT CONDITIONS
      The MMU registers are modifed. All CPU registers, except CC are preserved.


      GETTEXT = [E008]
      Place block 6.6 into the RAM image of the Task Register 0 MMU register which
      controls logical block 1. Then copy the RAM image of the MMU registers to the
      MMU registers. Finally, replace block 6.6 (as saved above) with block 7.1 in
      the RAM image of the MMU registers. This is a very special purpose routine
      used by Basic to replace the hi-res text screen into the logical address space
      so that they may be modified.

      ENTRY CONDITIONS
      None

      EXIT CONDIIIONS
      The RAM image of MMU register one of task register 0 and the MMU registers are
      modified. All CPU registers, except CC, are preserved.


      GETBLOK0 = [E00A]

      Place a block into the RAM image of Task Register 0 MMU register which controls
      logical block 0. Then copy the RAM image of the MMU registers to the MMU reg-
      isters. Finally, replace the block (as saved above) with block 7.0 in the RAM
      image of the MMU registers. This is a very special purpose routine used by
      Basic to place any block into the logical address space so that it may be
      modified.

      ENTRY CONDITIONS
      B contains the block (0-$3F) to be loaded.

      EXIT CONDITIONS
      The RAM image of the MMU register 0 of task register 0 and the MMU registers
      are modifed. Akk CPU registers, except CC, are preserved.


      GETTASK0 = [E00C]
      Restore task register 0 as the active task register.

      ENTRY CONDITIONS



                                                    G2
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II               APPENDIX G                           ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                     SUPER EXTENDED BASIC ROM ROUTINES   REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK


      The new address for the stack pointer must be the first two bytes on the stack.

      EXIT CONDITIONS
      The stack pointer is reset to the first two bytes on the old stack. All other
      CPU registers, except CC, are preserved. V40-V45 are modified. INIT1 is cleared
      which may affect the timer input clock. FIRQ and IRQ are masked on at the CPU.


      GETTASK1 = [E00E]
      Select Task Register 1 as the active task register

      ENTRY CONDITIONS
      None

      EXIT CONDITIONS
      The stack pointer has been reset to $DFFF and the old stack pointer has been
      saved on the new stack. All other CPU registers, except CC, have been saved.
      V40-V45 have been modified. INIT1 has been forced to 1 which may affect the
      timer input clock. FIRQ and IRQ have been masked off at the CPU.


      GOCART = E010
      This address is used to execute a ROM cartridge (on the expansion port) if the
      cartridge does not autostart.


      SPARE0 = [E013]
      This address is undefined.

      SPARE1 = [E015]
      This address is undefined.

      SPARE2 = [E017]
      This address is undefined.




                                                    G3
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                APPENDIX H                             ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                SUPER EXTENDED BASIC ROUTINES AND ENTRY POINTS
                                                                            REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




    Listed below are several routines in the Super Extended Basic ROM (which run in
    RAM). These routines should be used with great care since they usually expect
    that some of Basic's variables have been initialized to a certain range of
    values in order to function. If the routines encounter an error, they will
    exit to Basic's error processing code. The user must be aware of this fact
    and intercept Basic's error routines if you are to stay in control while
    using these routines. Some of these routines may also change the MMU registers
    - BEWARE!


    MODIFIED*
    REGISTERS         ADDRESS        DESCRIPTION

    none              E0CB           ENABLE HGET/HPUT BUFFER - Put the HPUT/HGET buffer
                                     block (6.4) into the logical address space. Exit with
                                     the MMU register images restored to 'normal'.

    A,B,X,Y           E0F1           PROGRAM MMU REGISTERS - Program the 16 MMU registers
                                     with the 16 bytes pointed to by the X register.

    B,X               E58E           GET LONG ADDRESS - Convert FPA0 into a 'long' (512K)
                                     address. Return the block number of the address in
                                     ACCB and the remaining 13 bits of the address in X.

    A,B,X             BUTTON+13      READ JOYSTICK BUTTON - Read the joystick button
                      (E5BE)         specified in ACCB (0-3) and return the status in FPA0.

    A,B,X,Y           E5FA           DISPLAY DEFAULT RGB COLORS - Copy Basic's default RGB
                                     palette register colors into the palette registers.

    A,B,X,Y           E606           DISPLAY DEFAULT CMP COLORS - Copy Basic's default CMP
                                     palette register colors into the palette registers.

    A,B,X,Y           E634           COPY PALETTE IMAGES - Copy the palette register color
                                     RAM images into the palette registers.

    A,B,X             CLRHIRES       CLEAR THE HI-RES GRAPHICS SCREEN - Clear the hi-res
                      (E6D8)         graphics screen to the palette register number in ACCB.

    A,B               PIXELFIL       FILL ACCB WITH PIXELS - Fill ACCB with pixels composed
                      E742           of a specific palette register. Enter with ACCB Con-
                                     taining the palette register number used to fill ACCB.

    A,B               E792           TURN ON A PIXEL - Turn on the pixel which is being
                                     pointed to by the X register (screen address) and bit
                                     position specified by ACCA (pixel mask) to the color
                                     in ALLCOL. Set CHGFLG <> 0 if pixel was unchanged by
                                     the action.

    A,B,X,Y           E7B2           EVALUATE HI-RES COORDINATES - Evaluate two expressions
                                     in a Basic Line. Perform hi-res coordinate range checks



                                                     H1
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                APPENDIX H                             ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                SUPER EXTENDED BASIC ROUTINES AND ENTRY POINTS
                                                                            REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK


                                     on the values returned and store the tested values in
                                     the address pointed to by Y.

    A,X,U             CALPOS         CALPOS FOR CURRENT HSCREEN MODE - Jump to the correct
                      E7DA           CALculate POSition routine depending upon the current
                                     HSCREEN mode.

    A,X               G1BITPIX       CALPOS 2 COLOR MODE - Calculate the screen address and
                      (E7FF)         pixel mask for the 2 color hi-res graphics mode. Enter
                                     with X,Y coordinates in HORBEG and VERBEG and exit with
                                     the address in the X Register and the pixel mask in ACCA.

    A,X               G2BITPIX       CALPOS 4 COLOR MODE - Calculate the screen address and
                      (E820)         pixel mask for the 4 color hi-res graphics mode. Enter
                                     with X,Y coordinates in HORBEG and VERBEG and exit with
                                     the address in the X Register and the pixel mask in ACCA.

    A,X               G4BITPIX       CALPOS 16 COLOR MODE - Calculate the screen address and
                      (E83F)         pixel mask for the 16 color hi-res graphics mode. Enter
                                     with X,Y coordinates in HORBEG and VERBEG and exit with
                                     the address in the X Register and the pixel mask in ACCA.

    A,B,X,Y,U         E8D3           DRAW A HI-RES BOX - Enclose a diagonal line with a box
                                     (box function of HLINE). Enter with the start and end
                                     coordinates of the original line in HORBEG,VERBEG,
                                     HOREND and VEREND.

    A,B,X,Y,U         E8F6           FILL A HI-RES BOX - Draw a series of horizontal lines
                                     from VERBEG to VEREND.

    A,B,X,Y,U         E906           DRAW A HORIZONTAL HI-RES LINE - Draw a horizontal hi-res
                                     line from HOREND to HORBEG at the vertical coordinate
                                     VERBEG with the palette register number in ALLCOL.

    A,B,X,Y,U         E931           DRAW A VERTICAL HI-RES LINE - Draw a vertical hi-res
                                     line from VEREND to VERBEG at the horizontal coordinate
                                     HORBEG with the palette register number in ALLCOL.

    A,B,X,Y,U         E94E           DRAW A HI-RES LINE - Draw a hi-res line from (HORBEG,
                                     VERBEG) to (HOREND, VEREND).

    X                 E9B1           INCREMENT HORIZONTAL HI-RES POSITION - Increment the
                                     horizontal hi-res position (HORBEG).

    X                 E9B8           INCREMENT VERTICAL HI-RES POSITION - Increment the
                                     vertical hi-res position (VERBEG).

    X                 E9BF           DEREMENT HORIZONTAL HI-RES POSITION - Decrement the
                                     horizontal hi-res position (HORBEG).

    X                 E9C6           DECREMENT VERTICAL HI-RES POSITION - Decrement the
                                     vertical hi-res position (VERBEG).




                                                     H2
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                APPENDIX H                             ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                SUPER EXTENDED BASIC ROUTINES AND ENTRY POINTS
                                                                            REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK


    A,B               E9CD           CALCULATE HI-RES ABS (VEREND-VERBEG) - Calculate the
                                     absolute value of the distance between VEREND and
                                     VERBEG. The carry flag will indicate which was the
                                     larger coordinate.

    A,B               E9DB           CALCULATE HI-RES ABS (HOREND-HORBEG) - Calculate the
                                     absolute value of the distance between HOREND and
                                     HORBEG. The carry flag will indicate which was the
                                     larger coordinate.

    B,U               EA16           POINT TO HI-RES PIXEL MOVE ROUTINE - Point the U register
                                     to the routine which will move the current pointer (X)
                                     to the right one pixel position for the current HSCREEN
                                     mode.

    A,X               EA2D           MOVE A HI-RES PIXEL TO THE RIGHT - Adjust the X register
                                     and ACCA one pixel position to the right in the 2 color
                                     hi-res graphics mode. Enter with the screen address in
                                     the X register and the pixel mask in ACCA.

    A,X               EA34           MOVE A HI-RES PIXEL TO THE RIGHT - Adjust the X register
                                     and ACCA one pixel position to the right in the 4 color
                                     hi-res graphics mode. Enter with the screen address in
                                     the X register and the pixel mask in ACCA.

    A,X               EA3D           MOVE A HI-RES PIXEL TO THE RIGHT - Adjust the X register
                                     and ACCA one pixel position to the right in the 16 color
                                     hi-res graphics mode. Enter with the screen address in
                                     the X register and the pixel mask in ACCA.

    B,X               EA45           ADJUST HI-RES SCREEN POINTER DOWN A ROW - Move the X
                                     register down one hi-res graphic row. The number of
                                     bytes per horizontal graphic row must be in HORBYT.

    U,Y               EBCB           16 BIT MULTIPLY - Multiply (unsigned) two 16 bit
                                     numbers together. Enter with one number in ACCD and the
                                     other in the X register. The four byte product will be
                                     returned in the Y and U registers.

    A,X               F00A           2 COLOR HI-RES PRINT DRIVER - Convert the bit pattern in
                                     ACCA into a hi-res 2 color pixel pattern and put that
                                     pixel pattern into the screen address pointed to by X.
                                     ALLCOL contains the palette register used.

    A,B,X             F01A           4 COLOR HI-RES PRINT DRIVER - Convert the bit pattern in
                                     ACCA into a hi-res 4 color pixel pattern and put that
                                     pixel pattern into the screen address pointed to by X.
                                     ALLCOL contains the palette register used.

    A,B,X             F045           16 COLOR HI-RES PRINT DRIVER - Convert the bit pattern in
                                     ACCA into a hi-res 16 color pixel pattern and put that
                                     pixel pattern into the screen address pointed to by X.
                                     ALLCOL contains the palette register used.



                                                     H3
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                APPENDIX H                             ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                SUPER EXTENDED BASIC ROUTINES AND ENTRY POINTS
                                                                            REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




    A,B               NEGACCD        NEGATE ACCD - Negate the value contained in ACCD.
                      (F4CC)

    A,B               F5FD           MULTIPLY ACCD BY 10 - Multiply the value contained in
                                     ACCD by 10.

    none              F608           NUMERIC ASCII TEST - Test ACCA to see if it contains a
                                     numeric (0-9) character. Return the carry flag clear if
                                     numeric, set if not.

    A,B,X             COL32          SET TO 32 COLUMN MODE - Set up the 32 column CoCo com-
                      (F652)         patible text mode and clear the text screen. This routine
                                     will enable IRQ and FIRQ at the CPU level.

    A,B,X             COL40          SET TO 40 COLUMN MODE - Set up the 40 column hi-res text
                      (F65C)         mode and clear the text screen. This routine will enable
                                     IRQ and FIRQ at the CPU level.

    A,B,X             COL80          SET TO 80 COLUMN MODE - Set up the 80 column hi-res text
                      (F679)         mode and clear the text screen. This routine will enable
                                     IRQ and FIRQ at the CPU level.

    A,B,X             F68C           CLEAR THE HI-RES TEXT SCREEN - Clear the hi-res text
                                     screen and home the cursor. The text screen must be in
                                     logical block 1 for this routine to function.

    A,B,X             F8F7           MOVE THE HI-RES CURSOR - Move the hi-res cursor to the
                                     column and row numbers specified in ACCA and ACCB
                                     respectively.

                      * The CC register is modified by all routines




                                                     H4
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                                     APPENDIX I                                                ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                                BASIC 1.2/EXTENDED 1.1 vs COLOR EXTENDED 2.0 DIFFERENCES            REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




                                               BASIC 1.2/EXTENDED 1.1 vs COLOR EXTENDED 2.0 DIFFERENCES

              Listed below are all of the sections of code where the Basic 1.2 and Extended Basic 1.1 ROMs differ from the
         bottom half of the CoCo 3 ROM. If these changes are made in the Color Basic Unravelled and Extended Basic Unravelled
         books, those books can then be used with the new CoCo 3 ROM. The code below is CoCo 3 code.

                                     * EXBAS WARM START ENTRY POINT
                                     PATCH1
             80C0                    XBWMST   FCB  $FF                                      SET TO NOT ALLOW A RESET TO WARM START HERE

             80E8                    L80E8     FCC   'EXTENDED COLOR BASIC 2.0'
             8100                              FCB   CR
             8101                              FCC   'COPR. 1982, 1986 BY TANDY '
             811C                              FCB   CR
             811D                              FCC   'UNDER LICENSE FROM MICROSOFT'
             8139                              FCB   CR

             813A                    PATCH13   FCB   CR,0

                                     * DLOAD COMMAND
             8C18                    DLOAD    JSR   LA429                                   CLOSE FILES

                                     * PRESSING THE RESET WILL BRING YOU HERE
             8C1B                    INT.RSET ORCC #$50                            DISABLE IRQ, FIRQ INTERRUPTS
             8C1D                             LDA   #MC3+MC1                       32K INTERNAL ROM, MMU DISABLED, NON COCO COMPATIBLE
             8C1F                             STA   INIT0
             8C22                             CLR   SAM+$1E
             8C25                             JMP   $C000
                                     * FIRQ SERVICING ROUTINE ADDITIONS
             8C28                             CLR   INT.FLAG                       SET THE INTERRUPT FLAG TO NOT VALID
             8C2B                             CLR   PIA1+3                         DISABLE PIA 1. PORT B INTERRUPTS
                                     * NON SELF-STARTING ROM CARTRIDGE INITIALIZATION CODE
             8C2E                             LDA   #COCO+MMUEN+MC3+MC2            ENABLE MMU, 16K INTERNAL/16K EXTERNAL ROM
             8C30                             STA   INIT0                          ALSO ENABLE STANDARD SCS, CONSTANT RAM AT FE00
             8C33                             CLR   SAM+$1E                        FORCE THE ROM MODE
             8C36                             RTS
                                     * PUT A CHARACTER ON THE SCREEN PATCH
                                     PATCH22A
             8C37                    L8C37    PSHS A,B,X                           SAVE REGISTERS
             8C39                             LDX   CURPOS                         POINT X TO THE CURRENT CHARACTER POSITION
             8C3B                             LDB   HRWIDTH                        GET THE HI-RES TEXT MODE
             8C3D                             LBNE $F7AE                           BRANCH IF IN A HI-RES TEXT MODE (ALINK22)
             8C41                    L8C41    LDB   1,S                            RESTORE ACCB TO ITS FORMER GLORY
             8C43                             JMP   LA30E                          GO BACK TO THE NON HI-RES CHARACTER DISPLAY ROUTINE

                                     * CLS PATCH
                                     PATCH23A
             8C46                    L8C46    PSHS   CC                                     SAVE THE ZERO FLAG
             8C48                             TST    HRWIDTH                                CHECK THE HI-RES TEXT MODE
             8C4A                             BEQ    L8C4F                                  BRANCH IF NOT IN A HI-RES TEXT MODE
             8C4C                             JMP    $F6AD                                  GO DO A HI-RES CLS (ALINK23)
             8C4F                    L8C4F    PULS   CC                                     RESTORE THE ZERO FLAG
             8C51                             JMP    LA913                                  GO DO A NON HI-RES CLS
             8C54                             NOP

                                     * NEW 2.0 INITIALIZATION CODE
             A02A                    LA02A    LDA  #BLOCK7.2                                * PUT THE 'NORMAL' BLOCK BACK INTO LOGICAL BLOCK 2;
             A02C                             STA  MMUREG+2                                 * THE INITIALIZATION CODE AT $C000 USES BLOCK 6.4.
             A02F                             LDX  #PIA1                                    POINT X TO PIA1
             A032                             LDD  #$FF34                                   *
             A035                             CLR  1,X                                      CLEAR CONTROL REGISTER A ON PIA1
             A037                             CLR  3,X                                      CLEAR CONTROL REGISTER B ON PIA1
             A039                             DECA                                          A REG NOW HAS $FE
             A03A                             STA  ,X                                       BITS 1-7 ARE OUTPUTS, BIT 0 IS INPUT ON PIA1 SIDE A
             A03C                             LDA  #$F8                                     =
             A03E                             STA  2,X                                      = BITS 0-2 ARE INPUTS, BITS 3-7 ARE OUTPUTS ON B SIDE
             A040                             STB  1,X                                      * ENABLE PERIPHERAL REGISTERS, DISABLE PIA1 MPU
             A042                             STB  3,X                                      * INTERRUPTS AND SET CA2, CB2 AS OUTPUTS
             A044                             CLR  2,X                                      SET 6847 MODE TO ALPHA-NUMERIC
             A046                             LDA  #2                                       *
             A048                             STA  ,X                                       * MAKE RS232 OUTPUT MARKING
             A04A                             LDA  #$FF34
             A04C                             LDX  #PIA0                                    POINT X TO PIA0
             A04F                             CLR  1,X                                      CLEAR PIA0 CONTROL REGISTER A
             A051                             CLR  3,X                                      CLEAR PIA0 CONTROL REGISTER B
             A053                             CLR  ,X                                       SET PIA0 SIDE A TO INPUT
             A055                             STA  2,X                                      * SET PIA0 SIDE B TO OUTPUT




                                                                          I1
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II                                    APPENDIX I                                                   ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                               BASIC 1.2/EXTENDED 1.1 vs COLOR EXTENDED 2.0 DIFFERENCES               REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




             A057                             STB   1,X                            * ENABLE PIA0 PERIPHERAL REGISTERS, DISABLE PIA0
             A059                             STB  3,X                             * MPU INTERRUPTS, SET CA2, CA1 TO OUTPUTS
             A05B                             JMP  LA072
                                     * THE MANUAL ROM CARTRIDGE START (EXEC &HE010) JUMPS HERE
             A05E                             JSR  LBC2E                           SET UP THE SYSTEM FOR A ROM CARTRIDGE
             A061                             JMP  ROMPAK                          JUMP TO THE ROM-PAK


             A084                    LA084   LDX    #$7FFF                                 FORCE THE TOP OF RAM TO BE $7FFF
             A087                            BRA    LA093
             A089                            NOP                                           THESE 10 NOPs ARE JUST SPACE FILLERS
             A08A                            NOP
             A08B                            NOP
             A08C                            NOP
             A08D                            NOP
             A08E                            NOP
             A08F                            NOP
             A090                            NOP
             A091                            NOP
             A092                            NOP


             A0CB                            JMP    EXBAS+2                                JUMP TO EXTENDED BASIC
             A0CE                    LA0CE   PSHS   B,X
             A0D0                            TST    HRWIDTH                                CHECK FOR HI-RES TEXT MODE
             A0D2                            LBNE   $F77E                                  BRANCH IF A HI-RES TEXT MODE IS ENABLED (ALINK24)
             A0D6                    LA0D6   JSR    LA199                                  BLINK THE CURSOR
             A0D9                            JSR    >KEYIN                                 GET A KEY
             A0DC                            BEQ    LA0D6                                  KEEP GOING UNTIL A KEY IS DEPRESSED
             A0DE                    LA0DE   JMP    LA1B9                                  REMOVE THE CURSOR FROM THE SCREEN AND RETURN

             A0F3                    LA0F3   JMP    LAC73                                  GO TO MAIN LOOP OF BASIC

             A0FC                    LA0FC   JSR    L8C28                                  PREPARE TO USE THE CARTRIDGE ROM; FORCE THE ROM MODE


                                     * THIS ROUTINE GETS A KEYSTRIKE FROM THE KEYBOARD IF A KEY
                                     * IS DOWN. IT RETURNS A ZERO TRUE IF THERE WAS NO KEY DOWN.

             A1C1                    LA1C1   JMP    KEYIN
             A1C4                            RTS                                           * THESE RTS's ARE WHERE A CHECK WAS PERFORMED TO
             A1C5                            RTS                                           * SEE IF A KEY WAS DOWN. IF THE CHECK REVEALED THAT
             A1C6                            RTS                                           * A KEY WAS NOT DOWN, THEN THE KEYIN
             A1C7                            RTS                                           * ROUTINE WAS NOT CHECKED. WHICH MAKES BASIC RUN
             A1C8                            RTS                                           * FASTER
             A1C9                            RTS
             A1CA                            RTS

                                     * INTERRUPT VECTORS
             BFF0                             FDB  $A681                                   RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE (FILLED WITH GARBAGE BYTES)
             BFF2                             FDB  INT.SWI3                                SOFTWARE INTERRUPT 3          ($FEEE)
             BFF4                             FDB  INT.SWI2                                SOFTWARE INTERRUPT 2          ($FEF1)
             BFF6                             FDB  INT.FIRQ                                FAST INTERRUPT REQUEST        ($FEF4)
             BFF8                             FDB  INT.IRQ                                 INTERRUPT REQUEST             ($FEF7)
             BFFA                             FDB  INT.SWI                                 SOFTWARE INTERRUPT            ($FEFA)
             BFFC                             FDB  INT.NMI                                 NON-MASKABLE INTERRUPT        ($FEFD)
             BFFE                             FDB  INT.RESET                               RESET BUTTON                  ($8C1B)




                                                                         I2
SUPER EXTENDED BASIC UNRAVELLED II               APPENDIX J                          ORIGIN:SPECTRAL ASSOC
                                     SUPER EXTENDED BASIC CHARACTER SET REVISED:12/26/1999 WALTER K ZYDHEK




                                      HI RESOLUTION CHARACTER SET

        Listed below is the character set available when in the high resolution text
    modes (WIDTH 40,80). The character set is repeated for character values $80-$FF.

           00   Ç     10   ó     20           30   0        40   @   50 P       60   ^      70   p
           01   ü     11   æ     21    !      31   1        41   A   51 Q       61   a      71   q
           02   é     12   Æ     22    "      32   2        42   B   52 R       62   b      72   r
           03   â     13   ô     23    #      33   3        43   C   53 S       63   c      73   s
           04   ä     14   ö     24    $      34   4        44   D   54 T       64   d      74   t
           05   à     15   ø     25    %      35   5        45   E   55 U       65   e      75   u
           06   å     16   û     26    &      36   6        46   F   56 V       66   f      76   v
           07   ç     17   ù     27    '      37   7        47   G   57 W       67   g      77   w
           08   ê     18   Ø     28    (      38   8        48   H   58 X       68   h      78   x
           09   ë     19   Ö     29    )      39   9        49   I   59 Y       69   I      79   y
           0A   è     1A   Ü     2A    *      3A   :        4A   J   5A Z       6A   j      7A   z
           0B   ï     1B   §     2B    +      3B   ;        4B   K   5B [       6B   k      7B   {
           0C   î     1C   £     2C    ,      3C   <        4C   L   5C \       6C   l      7C   |
           0D   ß     1D   ±     2D    -      3D   =        4D   M   5D ]       6D   m      7D   }
           0E   Ä     1E   °     2E    .      3D   >        4E   N   5E é       6E   n      7E   ~
           0F   Å     1F   ƒ     2F    /      3F   ?        4F   O   5F ç       6F   o      7F   _


                           LOW RESOLUTION COCO COMPATIBLE CHARACTER SET

        Listed below is the character set available when in the CoCo compatible
    text mode (WIDTH 32). Graphics blocks are printed for character values $80-$FF.
    The character set given below assumes that bit 4 of $FF22 is set. If that bit
    is clear, then the characters in the range of 0-$1F must be replaced by the
    corresponding characters in the range $40-$5F in inverse video.

           00   ^     10   p     20           30   0        40   @   50 P       60          70   0
           01   a     11   q     21    !      31   1        41   A   51 Q       61   !      71   1
           02   b     12   r     22    "      32   2        42   B   52 R       62   "      72   2
           03   c     13   s     23    #      33   3        43   C   53 S       63   #      73   3
           04   d     14   t     24    $      34   4        44   D   54 T       64   $      74   4
           05   e     15   u     25    %      35   5        45   E   55 U       65   %      75   5
           06   f     16   v     26    &      36   6        46   F   56 V       66   &      76   6
           07   g     17   w     27    '      37   7        47   G   57 W       67   '      77   7
           08   h     18   x     28    (      38   8        48   H   58 X       68   (      78   8
           09   I     19   y     29    )      39   9        49   I   59 Y       69   )      79   9
           0A   j     1A   z     2A    *      3A   :        4A   J   5A Z       6A   *      7A   :
           0B   k     1B   {     2B    +      3B   ;        4B   K   5B [       6B   +      7B   ;
           0C   l     1C   |     2C    ,      3C   <        4C   L   5C \       6C   ,      7C   <
           0D   m     1D   }     2D    -      3D   =        4D   M   5D ]       6D   -      7D   =
           0E   n     1E   ~     2E    .      3D   >        4E   N   5E é       6E   .      7E   >
           0F   o     1F   _     2F    /      3F   ?        4F   O   5F ç       6F   /      7F   ?

                Note: The characters defined by $20-$3F are inverse video.



                                                       J1
